#LyX 2.2 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 508
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize 11
\spacing other 1.5
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 2cm
\topmargin 2cm
\rightmargin 2cm
\bottommargin 2cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
How land use regulation affects residential segregation by income
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Benjamin Graham Stutts
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

Southern Methodist University
\begin_inset Foot
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
Email: bstutts@smu.edu
\end_layout

\end_inset

 
\begin_inset Foot
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
Thank you to my dissertation advisor Dr.
 James Lake and my dissertation committee members Dr.
 Daniel Millimet and Dr.
 Klaus Desmet for their invaluable suggestions and critiques throughout
 the research and paper-writing process.
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Abstract
Residential segregation by income severely limits access to opportunity
 for low income households, restricting prospects of upward mobility.
 Land use regulations are one potential determinant of such segregation.
 However, establishing a causal link between such regulation and segregation
 faces two econometric challenges.
 First, regulation is potentially endogenous.
 Second, proper measurement of segregation is difficult.
 With regard to the first challenge, the prior literature relies on instrumental
 variables that may not be valid.
 With regard to the second challenge, the prior literature relies on measures
 that ignore the spatial dimension of segregation.
 This paper uses a new instrumental variable strategy and measures of segregatio
n that account for the spatial distribution of neighborhoods within US metropoli
tan areas.
 The key findings are that stricter overall land use regulation 
\emph on
decreases
\emph default
 segregation within metropolitan areas and that accounting for the spatial
 aspect of segregation matters.
 However, the negative effect appears to be driven by state involvement
 and approval delay; other types of regulation, such as residential density
 restrictions (e.g.
 lot area minimums) and local zoning approval complexity, may 
\emph on
increase
\emph default
 segregation.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Abstract
JEL classification: R14, R23, R31, R52
\end_layout

\begin_layout Abstract
Keywords: Land Use Regulation, Zoning, Spatial, Economic Geography, Urban
 Economics
\end_layout

\begin_layout Abstract
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
thispagestyle{empty}
\end_layout

\end_inset


\begin_inset Newpage pagebreak
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
setcounter{page}{1}
\end_layout

\end_inset

Introduction
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Residential segregation by income varies widely across metropolitan areas
 (MSAs) in the United States and has been rising since the 1970s with a
 brief pause in the 1990s (Reardon et al.
 2018).
 The percent of families living in neighborhoods with median income outside
 50-150% of the MSA median rose from 15% in 1970 to 34% in 2012 (Galster
 and Sharkey 2017).
 Residential segregation is higher and has risen most among households with
 children (Chetty et al.
 2014, Owens 2016, Reardon et al.
 2018).
 Residential income segregation deprives these families not only of higher
 quality local amenities like good schools and safe streets but also of
 diverse social networks that share specialized expertise and career assistance.
 Rothwell and Massey (2015) estimate the lifetime earnings gap between a
 top- and bottom-quartile census tract is $910,000.
 Hence, segregation impedes social and economic mobility and increases social
 and economic inequality (Chetty et al.
 2014, Chetty and Hendren 2018, Ewing et al.
 2016, Fogli and Guerreri 2019, Jargowsky 2018, Owens et al.
 2016, Reardon and Bischoff 2011, Rothwell and Massey 2015).
\begin_inset Foot
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
The United States exhibits wide geographic disparities both between and
 within metro areas in upward social and economic mobility (Intrator et
 al.
 2016, Galster and Sharkey 2017, Lens 2017).
 Housing costs reduce intergenerational economic mobility by making it harder
 for low-income households to live in high-opportunity neighborhoods and
 still finance education and save (Chetty et al.
 2020).
 Residential income segregation creates unequal opportunities that deprive
 poorer children regardless of their potential (Jargowsky and Wheeler 2017,
 Acs et al.
 2017).
 
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Land use regulation may contribute to residential segregation.
 Residential land use regulations can protect a community's public amenities
 but slow housing stock growth and raise housing costs, contributing to
 income sorting between and possibly within MSAs (Glaeser and Gyourko 2018,
 Ganong and Shoag 2017).
 Restricting the quantity of housing within a high-demand area limits residentia
l access to those most willing to pay.
 Metro-wide residential zoning restrictions raise fixed costs of housing,
 circumscribing lower-income housing options.
 Higher income households outbid lower income households for limited housing
 within highly-regulated high-opportunity MSAs.
 This may concentrate high-income households in high-demand neighborhoods
 and sort lower-income households into lower opportunity or more peripheral
 neighborhoods within those MSAs as well as into separate MSAs entirely.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Local land use rules may affect housing markets and the income distribution
 of residents not only within their own jurisdictions but also in other
 jurisdictions across the broader economic region.
 Local zoning laws across the United States restrict residential density
 to varying degrees.
 Without density restrictions, rising residential land values in high-demand
 neighborhoods encourage higher density development until the premium per
 housing unit disappears.
 Density limits preserve housing unit premiums in high-demand neighborhoods,
 geographically separating the housing market by income level.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
While density restrictions are expected to increase residential segregation,
 it is not obvious that land use regulation should always increase residential
 segregation.
 If residential preferences favor sorting by income, then (especially if
 neighborhood quality changes over time) higher costs of obtaining project
 approval may reduce residential re-sorting (Schelling 1971).
 Thus, MSAs with stricter land use regulations may have lower residential
 segregation.
 Ultimately, the size and direction of any effect of land use rules depends
 on the nature of residential preferences.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The Schelling (1971) model presents full residential segregation as the
 unique stable equilibrium under even a slight preference for living amonst
 peers.
 Building off Schelling's checkerboard model of segregation, imagine a checkerbo
ard with rich and poor people buying a location on a checkerboard without
 any restrictions on the number of people per square and no preferences
 over squares or neighbors.
 Rich and poor people will randomly disperse across the board.
 Without locational preferences, restricting density would not substantively
 affect segregation because it would only increase the average distance
 between everyone on the checkerboard.
 However, with locational preferences, density restrictions can affect segregati
on.
 By increasing the price of squares in high demand locations, density restrictio
ns increase income segregation.
 Nevertheless, permitting restrictions that raise the fixed cost of moving
 would slow any re-sorting.
 Thus, in general, land use regulations have an ambiguous effect on income
 segregation.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This paper investigates how land use regulation influences residential segregati
on by income in MSAs, using a segregation measure that accounts for the
 spatial distance between neighborhoods.
 I hypothesize that density restrictions will increase spatial segregation
 and high-income residential concentration by making housing in high-demand
 areas highly supply inelastic.
 Other land use restrictions may raise or lower segregation.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Examining segregation between neighborhoods within MSAs requires a definition
 of neighborhood boundaries.
 A neighborhood alludes to a local spatial area of regular physical social
 interaction, but no uniform definition of boundaries exists.
 Segregation measures commonly use census tracts or block groups to proxy
 neighborhood boundaries.
 Chetty et al.
 (2014) observes sharp contrasts in economic mobility even at the block
 level in some MSAs, suggesting segregation may matter at many spatial scales.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Traditional segregation measures compare characteristics across neighborhoods
 within an MSA without accounting for distance between neighborhoods.
 Effective segregation may be less severe when high- and low-income neighborhood
s are close together than when they are distant.
 Ranking MSAs by residential segregation depends on the choice of measure
 and level of analysis: Census block, block group, tract, etc.
 (Lee et al.
 2008).
 This paper's primary segregration measure, the spatial information theory
 index from Reardon and O'Sullivan (2004), accounts for varying degrees
 of spatial proximity between neighborhoods.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Spatial scales matter for segregation.
 Aspatial measures don't capture proximity between sub-areas, resulting
 in the checkerboard problem (Lens 2017, Reardon and O’Sullivan 2004).
 The problem is that a metro area with segregated neighborhoods dispersed
 evenly throughout the metro area (like red and black squares on a checkerboard)
 would score no differently than a metro area with equally segregated neighborho
ods concentrated (like a board all red on the left and all black on the
 right).
 But these two different situations seemingly convey very different notions
 of segregation.
 Thus, it is important for metro area residential segregation measures to
 reflect the spatial distribution of people within the metro area.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Aspatial measures also suffer from the modifiable areal unit problem: sensitivit
y to the choice of sub-area unit land area size and boundaries to the extent
 proportions of population groups in nearby sub-areas vary.
 Tract and block group land area shrinks with population density (Lee et
 al.
 2019).
 While residents of less dense areas in car-oriented suburbs may regularly
 cover greater geographic distance, residents in denser areas may regularly
 interact with a larger population.
 Tract-based aspatial measures may thus overstate segregation in densely
 populated areas and understate it in less dense areas.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The spatial information theory index better reflects the lack of distinct
 neighborhood boundaries in densely populated areas.
\begin_inset Foot
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
See Reardon et al.
 (2008) and Population Research Institute (www.pop.psu.edu/mss) on spatial
 measures.
\end_layout

\end_inset

 Spatial weights capture the proximity of nearby areas beyond sub-area unit
 boundaries (Reardon et al.
 2006; Reardon et al.
 2008; Lee et al.
 2008; Reardon and Bischoff 2011; Lee et al.
 2019).
 Adopting the spatial information theory index from Reardon and O'Sullivan
 (2004) allows this paper to account for the proximity of people in one
 block group to people in nearby block groups and explore how land use regulatio
n might affect spatial evenness at different geographic scales.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The analysis here closely relates to two prior empirical studies, Rothwell
 and Massey (2010) and Lens and Monkonnen (2016), that indicate density-restrict
ing land use regulation increases segregation.
 Rothwell and Massey (2010) find density zoning restrictions increase residentia
l income segregation in US MSAs but find no evidence of an effect for other
 land use regulations or broader indices like the 2005 Wharton Residential
 Land Use Regulation Index (WRLURI).
 They measure segregation via a Neighborhood Gini coefficient, an exposure
 index of poor to affluent, and a poverty dissimilarity index.
\begin_inset Foot
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
See the Appendix section below or Rothwell and Massey (2010) for a description
 of these segregation measures.
\end_layout

\end_inset

Rothwell and Massey measure maximum permitted dwelling units per acre and
 other zoning rules using Pendall, Puentes, and Martin (2006)'s 2003 survey
 of local land use regulations in 1,677 out of roughly 5,000 total jurisdictions
 in the 50 largest MSAs in the United States.
 Rothwell and Massey's two-stage least squares (2SLS) estimates use year
 of statehood and MSA population density in 1910 as IVs and control for
 socioeconomic and environmental characteristics.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Lens and Monkkonen (2016) find lot size minimums increase segregation of
 the high and middle income but not low income.
 Municipal review process complexity and local political pressure to restrict
 land use also increase segregation.
 State involvement in land use regulation reduces income segregation.
 They measure 2010 segregation for MSAs with over 500,000 people using the
 aspatial Reardon and O’Sullivan (2004) ordinal information theory index
 that compares the percent difference in MSA income diversity and a population-w
eighted sum of each block group's income diversity.
\begin_inset Foot
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
See the Methods section below for a formal discussion of segregation measurement.
\end_layout

\end_inset

 They run OLS with controls using the 2005 Wharton Residential Land Use
 Regulation Index (WRLURI) survey of 11 categories of local land use regulations
 from Gyourko et al.
 (2008).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
However, their identification strategies may be inadequate to establish
 causality, and their segregation measures do not account for the socioeconomic
 composition of nearby neighborhoods.
 This paper, like Lens and Monkonnen (2016), uses the Wharton Residential
 Land Use Regulation Index (WRLURI) that surveys 1,904 jurisdictions in
 293 MSAs, instead of the Pendall land use regulation survey that Rothwell
 and Massey (2010) uses, to increase the number of observations.
 I extend the work of these papers in two ways.
 First, I use more convincing instrumental variables (IVs).
 Second, I use additional measures of MSA-level segregation that capture
 the geographic distance between neighborhoods, using Census block group
 as a proxy for neighborhood.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
My primary specifications measure MSA residential segregation by income
 using the spatial ordinal information theory index, from Reardon et al.
 (2006).
 The index relies on 2012-2016 5-year ACS block-level Census data and the
 NBER block group distance database for the 2010 US Census.
 I estimate the causal effect of MSA-level averages of municipal WRLURI
 scores on this segregation measure using 2SLS.
 Because historical segregation patterns and other factors likely influence
 both 2005 land use regulation and 2012-2016 segregation, I instrument for
 land use regulation using the 1982 share of protective inspection and regulatio
n expenditures from the US Census of Governments and 1991 stream count from
 the US Geological Survey (USGS) (Dawkins 2005, Saiz 2010).
 1982 protective expenditure share proxies an MSA's historical political
 affinity for regulation in general, which should predict land use regulation
 and is otherwise plausibly unrelated to segregation.
 1991 stream count proxies an MSA's geographic fragmentation, assumed to
 affect segregation only through its contribution to political fragmentation
 and land use regulation.
 I also estimate the causal effect of WRLURI on the spatial information
 theory index of Black-White segregation.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This paper's main contribution is finding that land use regulation, measured
 by WRLURI, reduces MSA segregation by income under a range of measures
 that incorporate geographic distance between block groups.
 Heterogeneous effects across WRLURI components suggest differential effects
 by the type of land use regulation.
 Approval Delay and State Political Involvement Indexes reduce segregation,
 whereas the number of local bodies required to approve zoning changes increases
 segregation at all but the smallest spatial scales.
 The Density Restriction Index is positively associated with segregation
 but only significant in ordinary least squares (OLS) specifications.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In sum, prior empirical findings show land use restrictions, particularly
 on density, increase residential segregation by income and race (Berry
 2001; Rothwell and Massey 2009, 2010; Rugh and Massey 2014; Lens and Monkkonen
 2016).
 Closely building on Lens and Monkonnen (2016) and Rothwell and Massey (2010),
 this paper applies distance-based spatial segregation measures that better
 reflect effective segregation of economic opportunity and an alternative
 identification approach to address endogeneity.
 This paper finds overall land use regulation reduces MSA segregation.
 However, results vary by the measure of segregation and type of land use
 regulation.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Section 2 describes my methodological framework, identification strategy,
 and segregation measures.
 Section 3 describes my data.
 Section 4 reports the results.
 Section 5 concludes.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Methods
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
\noindent
Empirical Framework
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The empirical framework closely follows Rothwell and Massey (2010) and Lens
 and Monkonnen (2016).
 The empirical specifications regress MSA-level segregation variables from
 the 2016 5-year ACS on the 2005 Wharton Residential Land Use Regulation
 Index (WRLURI).
 The lag between 2005 and 2012-2016 provides time for land use regulations
 to affect residential segregation.
 My controls are mostly from the 2000 Census to avoid errors cross-walking
 from 2016 to the 2000 MSA boundaries that WRLURI uses.
 I first follow the main regression from Lens and Monkonnen (2016), except
 I use ACS 2012-2016 segregation data instead of 2010 data and I do not
 drop MSAs with fewer than 500,000 people.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I use the model:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Formula 
\[
S_{i}=\beta_{0}+\beta_{1}R{}_{i}+X_{i}\beta_{2}+u_{i}
\]

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\noindent
where 
\begin_inset Formula $i$
\end_inset

 is MSA (2000 Census MSA/PMSA).
 
\begin_inset Formula $S$
\end_inset

 is a measure of segregation by household income, the ratio of household
 income to the poverty threshold, or race.
 
\begin_inset Formula $R$
\end_inset

 is the score for WRLURI or one of its components.
 
\begin_inset Formula $X$
\end_inset

 is a vector of controls: the natural log of the MSA's total population
 (2000 Census), the Gini Index of Income Inequality (ACS 2016 5-year), the
 share of households with annual household income less than $20,000 (2000
 Census), the share of households with annual household income at least
 $60,000 (2000 Census), the share of the total population who is Black alone
 or Hispanic alone (2000 Census), and the number of general purpose municipality
 governments (e.g.
 cities and townships) in 2002.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
\noindent
Identification
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Land use regulation may be endogenous because past segregation and other
 variables may influence both an MSA's land use policy and current segregation.
 This paper seeks to address this concern through the use of instrumental
 variables that plausibly affect land use regulation but not segregation.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Rothwell and Massey (2010) instrument for land use regulation with year
 of statehood and 1910 population density, which the authors suggest proxy
 for MSAs with more established suburban settlements that would typically
 restrict land use more than would new settlements.
 Rothwell and Massey (2010) observe that MSAs with later statehood year
 tend to have had less time for rural settlements to form around cities.
 They hypothesize older rural settlements are more likely to have established
 political coalitions opposing new development, citing Olson (1982).
 Such settlements may be more prevalent in historically denser MSAs.
 They observe zoning restrictiveness measured by a zoning survey has a strong
 negative correlation with statehood year and positive correlation with
 1910 population density, consistent with this hypothesis.
 To be valid, 1910 population density and statehood year must only affect
 segregation via channels captured by variables included in the regression
 model.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
While statehood year and 1910 population density mostly predate the adoption
 of zoning and other modern land use regulations, these instruments may
 not be valid if MSAs in older states or with higher 1910 population densities
 are systematically more or less prone to segregation through channels outside
 land use policy such as their effect on modern population density.
\begin_inset Foot
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
Rothwell and Massey (2010) include population density as a control in their
 initial regression with extensive controls before pairing down to their
 preferred parsimonious regression.
\end_layout

\end_inset

 Statehood year may be invalid if it proxies for historical racial segregation.
 1910 population density of MSAs may be subject to bias from endogenous
 MSA boundaries.
 For instance, an MSA in California includes predominantly rural Kern County,
 one of the geographically largest counties in the US.
 By contrast, New England MSAs define boundaries by municipalities rather
 than counties.
 New England MSAs are thus more likely to exclude rural areas and, in turn,
 will appear denser than in other states.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Instead, my preferred MSA-level instrumental variables for WRLURI are 1982
 protective regulation and inspection expenditure share from Saiz (2010)
 and number of stream segments in the 1991 USGS hydrography layer from the
 1:2,000,000 DLG data from Dawkins (2005).
 Dawkins (2005) and Hoxby (2000) employed number of streams as an instrument
 for municipal competition on segregation.
 They note that streams often formed municipal boundaries, especially in
 the 19th century when even smaller streams posed significant transportation
 barriers.
 Thus, areas with a greater number of streams would be more likely to have
 a greater number of municipal jurisdictions.
 This greater number of jurisdictions would also create greater incentive
 for local regulation attempting to capture local land rents within an MSA
 and free ride as much as possible on surrounding neighborhoods by restricting
 their own land use.
 Because the number of jurisdictions could affect segregation, I control
 for the number of jurisdictions.
 Even after controlling for the number of jurisdictions, the number of streams
 is negatively associated with WRLURI.
 But Cutler and Glaeser (1997) find no significant correlation between the
 number of streams and segregation after controlling for the number of jurisdict
ions.
 Hence, it seems plausible that the number of streams is unrelated to segregatio
n except through land use regulation and my controls.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Additionally, I use local public protective inspection and regulation expenditur
es as a share of local government revenues from the Census 1982 State and
 Local Government Finance Data.
\begin_inset Foot
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
The US Census Bureau defines protective inspection and regulation as 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

regulation of private enterprise for the protection of the public and inspection
 of hazardous activities except for major functions, such as fire prevention,
 health, natural resources, etc.
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 
\end_layout

\end_inset

 Saiz (2010) argues this local government spending allocation may proxy
 for local preference for regulation independent of housing preferences.
 He uses the variable to instrument for WRLURI in housing elasticity regressions.
 Protective expenditure share correlates positively with WRLURI.
 While segregation may be related to the levels of public expenditures,
 it seems plausible that the public protective regulation and inspection
 expenditures as a share of public revenue is not related to segregation
 except through land use regulation.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Measurement of Segregation
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
My specifications include spatial and aspatial versions of the information
 theory indexes for household income, poverty ratio, and race.
 For each of the spatial information theory indexes, I run specifications
 with measures at 500, 1000, 2000, 4000, and 8000 meter radii.
\begin_inset Foot
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
Chetty et al.
 (2020) find characteristics of blocks only within a mile of a child's block
 help explain a child's future earnings.
 Smaller spatial scales like 500m matter more for those with restricted
 mobility like young children and the elderly.
 Intermediate spatial scales like 2000m may be more important for teenagers.
 Larger distances may matter more for mobile working-age adults.
\end_layout

\end_inset

 My preferred measure is the spatial ordinal information theory index of
 household income segregation.
\begin_inset Foot
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
Massey and Denton (1988) identify five dimensions of segregation: evenness,
 exposure, concentration, centralization, and clustering.
 Reardon and O'Sullivan (2004) condense all five dimensions into two broader
 dimensions: spatial evenness and spatial exposure.
 Spatial evenness reflects how similarly different population groups distribute
 across residential space within a metro area.
 Spatial exposure reflects how prevalent members of one population group
 are in the residential space near a member of another group.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout
My main specifications use the spatial ordinal information theory index
 from Reardon et al.
 (2006), a weighted average of binary-group segregation values (Reardon
 2011).
 The spatial information theory index captures spatial evenness.
 It builds on the aspatial Theil's 
\emph on
H
\emph default
 Information Theory Index (Reardon et al.
 2018).
 Reardon (2011) demonstrates its robustness to income category thresholds
 for US MSAs if using all Census income bins and to the set of income bins
 if bins span most of the income distribution.
\end_layout

\end_inset

 To build this index, I will first describe an aspatial information theory
 index 
\begin_inset Formula $H$
\end_inset

 and move on to a spatial information theory index 
\begin_inset Formula $\tilde{H}$
\end_inset

.
 I will then describe how to move to an aspatial ordinal information theory
 index 
\begin_inset Formula $H_{O}$
\end_inset

 and Reardon's spatial ordinal information theory index 
\begin_inset Formula $\tilde{H}_{O}$
\end_inset

.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The aspatial information theory index measures how different the population
 composition of an MSA is as an aggregate unit of geography relative to
 its constituent block groups.
 I will always be comparing two groups 
\begin_inset Formula $m$
\end_inset

: either the share White vs.
 share Black or the share above vs.
 share below income threshold 
\begin_inset Formula $t$
\end_inset

.
 The building block for the difference between the population composition
 of an MSA and its constituent block groups is a population diversity measure
 called the Entropy Diversity Index:
\begin_inset Formula 
\begin{equation}
E=\begin{cases}
\sum_{m=1}^{2}\frac{P_{m}}{\sum_{n=1}^{2}P_{n}}\ln(\frac{\sum_{n=1}^{2}P_{n}}{P_{m}}) & \textrm{if}\:0<\frac{P_{m}}{\sum_{n=1}^{2}P_{n}}<1\\
0 & \textrm{otherwise}
\end{cases}
\end{equation}

\end_inset

 and 
\begin_inset Formula 
\begin{equation}
E_{j}=\begin{cases}
\sum_{m=1}^{2}\frac{P_{jm}}{\sum_{n=1}^{2}P_{jn}}\ln(\frac{\sum_{n=1}^{2}P_{jn}}{P_{jm}}) & \textrm{if}\:0<\frac{P_{jm}}{\sum_{n=1}^{2}P_{jn}}<1\\
0 & \textrm{otherwise}
\end{cases}
\end{equation}

\end_inset

 where 
\begin_inset Formula $E$
\end_inset

 is the Entropy Diversity Index for the overall MSA, 
\begin_inset Formula $E_{j}$
\end_inset

 is the aspatial Entropy Diversity Index for sub-area unit (e.g.
 Census block group) 
\begin_inset Formula $j$
\end_inset

 within the MSA, 
\begin_inset Formula $m$
\end_inset

 and 
\begin_inset Formula $n$
\end_inset

 are sub-population categories where 
\begin_inset Formula $m,n=1$
\end_inset

 is the relatively disadvantaged group (e.g.
 below income threshold 
\begin_inset Formula $t$
\end_inset

) and 
\begin_inset Formula $m,n=2$
\end_inset

 is the relatively advantaged group (e.g.
 above income threshold 
\begin_inset Formula $t$
\end_inset

), 
\begin_inset Formula $P_{m}$
\end_inset

 is the MSA's population in sub-population category 
\begin_inset Formula $m$
\end_inset

 (e.g.
 MSA population below income threshold 
\begin_inset Formula $t$
\end_inset

), and 
\begin_inset Formula $P_{jm}$
\end_inset

 is sub-area unit 
\begin_inset Formula $j$
\end_inset

's population in category 
\begin_inset Formula $m$
\end_inset

.
 When 
\begin_inset Formula $E=0$
\end_inset

 or 
\begin_inset Formula $E_{j}=0$
\end_inset

, the MSA or sub-area unit, respectively, only has people from one of the
 two sub-population categories.
 The larger the value of 
\begin_inset Formula $E$
\end_inset

 or 
\begin_inset Formula $E_{j}$
\end_inset

 (up to a maximum of 1), the more equal are the population shares of categories
 
\begin_inset Formula $m=1$
\end_inset

 and 
\begin_inset Formula $m=2$
\end_inset

 within the MSA or sub-area unit, respectively.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The Information Theory Index 
\begin_inset Formula $H$
\end_inset

 is:
\begin_inset Formula 
\begin{equation}
H=1-\frac{\sum_{j=1}^{J}\left(\sum_{m=1}^{2}\frac{P_{jm}}{P_{m}}E_{j}\right)}{E}
\end{equation}

\end_inset

 where 
\begin_inset Formula $J$
\end_inset

 is the number of sub-area units 
\begin_inset Formula $j$
\end_inset

 in the MSA.
 The Information Theory Index ranges from zero to one.
 When 
\begin_inset Formula $H=0$
\end_inset

, knowing the block group a person lives in is no more informative about
 the person's likelihood of belonging to category 
\begin_inset Formula $m$
\end_inset

 than is knowing the person's MSA.
 When 
\begin_inset Formula $H=1$
\end_inset

, knowing the block group a person lives in fully informs you about the
 category 
\begin_inset Formula $m$
\end_inset

 to which a person belongs.
 This binary form of the information theory measure (i.e.
 
\begin_inset Formula $m$
\end_inset

 has two possible values) provides both my measure of Black-White segregation
 and the components for my primary aspatial measure of income segregation.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Spatial versions of the information theory index reflect how informative
 knowing a person lives within radius 
\begin_inset Formula $r$
\end_inset

 of a Census block group 
\begin_inset Formula $j$
\end_inset

 is for knowing the category 
\begin_inset Formula $m$
\end_inset

 to which the person belongs.
 The Spatial Ordinal Information Theory Index 
\begin_inset Formula $\tilde{H}$
\end_inset

 accounts for the population composition of nearby sub-area units up to
 some radius distance 
\begin_inset Formula $r$
\end_inset

 (e.g.
 500m).
 This is done by creating a Spatial Entropy Diversity Index 
\begin_inset Formula $\tilde{E}_{j}$
\end_inset

 for each sub-area unit 
\begin_inset Formula $j$
\end_inset

 using proximity-based weights: 
\begin_inset Formula 
\begin{equation}
w_{jk}=\begin{cases}
[1-(\frac{d_{jk}}{r})^{2}]^{2} & \textrm{if}\:d_{jk}<r\\
0 & {\textstyle \mathrm{otherwise}}
\end{cases}
\end{equation}

\end_inset

for every combination of sub-area units 
\begin_inset Formula $j$
\end_inset

 and 
\begin_inset Formula $k$
\end_inset

 where 
\begin_inset Formula $d_{jk}$
\end_inset

 is distance in miles between the internal points of sub-area units 
\begin_inset Formula $j$
\end_inset

 and 
\begin_inset Formula $k$
\end_inset

.
 For each group 
\begin_inset Formula $m$
\end_inset

 in each sub-area 
\begin_inset Formula $j$
\end_inset

, there is a spatially-weighted local population composition (LPC) function:
 
\begin_inset Formula 
\begin{equation}
LPC_{jm}=\frac{\sum_{k\in J}P{}_{km}\times w{}_{jk}}{\sum_{k\in J}(\sum_{n=1}^{2}P{}_{kn})\times w{}_{jk}}
\end{equation}

\end_inset

that divides the sum of all these weighted nearby-sub-area populations in
 group 
\begin_inset Formula $m$
\end_inset

 by the weighted sum of the population overall.
 The Spatial Entropy Diversity Index for each 
\begin_inset Formula $j$
\end_inset

 is then: 
\begin_inset Formula 
\begin{equation}
\tilde{E}_{j}=\begin{cases}
\sum_{m=1}^{2}LPC_{jm}\ln(\frac{1}{LPC_{jm}}) & \textrm{if}\:0<LPC_{jm}<1\\
0 & \textrm{otherwise}
\end{cases}
\end{equation}

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Substituting 
\begin_inset Formula $\tilde{E}_{j}$
\end_inset

 into the information theory index gives the Spatial Information Theory
 Index: 
\begin_inset Formula 
\begin{equation}
\tilde{H}=1-\frac{\sum_{j=1}^{J}\left(\frac{P_{j}}{P}\tilde{E}_{j}\right)}{E}
\end{equation}

\end_inset

The binary form of 
\begin_inset Formula $\tilde{H}$
\end_inset

 (i.e.
 
\begin_inset Formula $m$
\end_inset

 has two possible values) provides both my spatial measure of Black-White
 segregation as well as the components for my primary spatial income segregation
 measure, the Spatial Ordinal Information Theory Index.
 When 
\begin_inset Formula $\tilde{H}=0$
\end_inset

, knowing the block group a person lives in is no more informative about
 the likelihood a neighbor belongs to category 
\begin_inset Formula $m$
\end_inset

 than is knowing the person's MSA.
 When 
\begin_inset Formula $\tilde{H}=1$
\end_inset

, knowing the block group a person lives in fully informs you about the
 category 
\begin_inset Formula $m$
\end_inset

 to which a neighbor belongs.
 Neighbors include anyone in the same block group and a proximity-weighted
 share of people in other block groups within a specified radius (500m,
 1000m, 2000m, 4000m, or 8000m).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
To measure income segregation for my aspatial baseline specification, I
 use the Ordinal Information Theory Index 
\begin_inset Formula $H_{O}$
\end_inset

 (Reardon 2011, Lens and Monkkonen 2016).
 Here, the sub-area units 
\begin_inset Formula $j$
\end_inset

 are Census block groups, and the sub-population categories 
\begin_inset Formula $m=1,2$
\end_inset

 are the groups above and below an income threshold 
\begin_inset Formula $t$
\end_inset

.
 That is, equation (3) provides 
\begin_inset Formula $H_{t}$
\end_inset

 for a given income threshold.
 Then, 
\begin_inset Formula 
\begin{equation}
H_{O}=\sum_{t=1}^{T}\frac{E_{t}H_{t}}{\sum_{u=1}^{T}E_{u}}
\end{equation}

\end_inset

is a weighted average of 
\begin_inset Formula $H_{t}$
\end_inset

 across all income thresholds 
\begin_inset Formula $t$
\end_inset

.
\begin_inset Foot
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
For my measures, 
\begin_inset Formula $H_{t}$
\end_inset

 are binary-group indices of segregation of those above income threshold
 
\begin_inset Formula $t$
\end_inset

 from those below income threshold 
\begin_inset Formula $t$
\end_inset

.
 The two categories 
\begin_inset Formula $m$
\end_inset

 are: (1) population above and (2) population below some income threshold
 
\begin_inset Formula $t$
\end_inset

.
 
\begin_inset Formula $H_{t}$
\end_inset

 calculates how closely each block group’s population shares above and below
 income threshold 
\begin_inset Formula $t$
\end_inset

 match those of the overall MSA.
 It sums these values of each block group in the MSA weighted by the block
 group’s share of the MSA’s population.
 
\begin_inset Formula $H_{O}$
\end_inset

 aggregates all values of 
\begin_inset Formula $H_{t}$
\end_inset

 for each 
\begin_inset Formula $t$
\end_inset

, weighted by the value of 
\begin_inset Formula $E_{t}$
\end_inset

, which increases the closer 
\begin_inset Formula $t$
\end_inset

 is to the 50th percentile in the MSA population.
 
\begin_inset Formula $E_{t}$
\end_inset

 (
\begin_inset Formula $E_{u}$
\end_inset

) is the Entropy Diversity Index 
\begin_inset Formula $E$
\end_inset

 where the two categories 
\begin_inset Formula $m$
\end_inset

 are: (1) population above and (2) population below some income threshold
 
\begin_inset Formula $t$
\end_inset

 (
\begin_inset Formula $u$
\end_inset

).
 
\end_layout

\end_inset

 To measure income segregation for my spatial specifications, I use the
 Spatial Ordinal Information Theory Index 
\begin_inset Formula $\tilde{H}_{O}$
\end_inset

:
\begin_inset Formula 
\begin{equation}
\tilde{H}_{O}=\sum_{t=1}^{T}\frac{E_{t}\tilde{H}_{t}}{\sum_{u=1}^{T}E_{u}}
\end{equation}

\end_inset

that is simply the spatial analog of 
\begin_inset Formula $H_{O}$
\end_inset

.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
\noindent
Data
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Dependent Variables: Aspatial and Spatial Segregation Measures
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This paper's dependent variables are MSA-level segregation measures created
 from ACS 5-year 2016 block group and the NBER Census Block Group Distance
 Database data crosswalked to 1999 MSA and PMSA boundaries of 295 MSAs and
 PMSAs.
\begin_inset Foot
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
ACS 5-year 2016 block group population counts are not adjusted to ensure
 they match official population estimates.
 US Census encourages using ACS block group data only to compare percentages
 and averages, not population or sub-group population counts.
 However, my segregation measures rely on these population counts and are
 susceptible to significant measurement error.
 See: https://www.census.gov/programs-surveys/acs/guidance/handbooks/researchers.ht
ml
\end_layout

\end_inset


\begin_inset Formula $^{,}$
\end_inset


\begin_inset Foot
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
I use Metropolitan Areas from 1999 defined by the Office of Management and
 Budget (OMB) under a complex set of standards (see: https://www.govinfo.gov/conte
nt/pkg/FR-1998-12-21/pdf/98-33676.pdf#).
 Typically, a metropolitan area includes central counties (cities/towns
 only in New England) containing most of a city or urbanized area of at
 least 50,000 people and outlying counties (cities/towns only in New England)
 with any of the following: (1) at least 50% of employed residents commuting
 into the central counties and at least 25 people per sqmi; (2) 40%+ commuting
 and 35+ per sqmi or 5000+ residents live in qualifier urbanized area; (3)
 25%+ commuting and 50+ per sqmi or two of following: (a) 35+ per sqmi,
 (b) 35% urban population, (c) 5000+ in qualifier urbanized area; (4) 15%+
 commuting (or workers commuting from central counties is 15%+ and all workers
 commuting to and from central counties if 20%+ of employed residents) and
 two of following: (a) 60+ per sqmi, (b) 35% urban population, (c) 20%+
 population growth between last decennial censuses, (d) 5000+ in qualifer
 urbanized area; (5) 2500+ residents live in central city.
 This paper refers to both MSAs (metropolitan statistical areas) and PMSAs
 (primary metropolitan statistical areas) as MSAs.
 
\end_layout

\end_inset

 Each regression employs a version of the information theory index to capture
 the evenness or spatial evenness dimension of segregation.
 Relative segregation between MSAs varies with scale, but Table 1 shows
 that the correlation across scales within each measure always exceeds .75.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Paragraph
Ordinal Information Theory Index for Poverty:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I use the Stata “rankseg” command to create an ordinal information theory
 index (equation 8) using population counts of bins for people with income
 in the following percentage ranges of the poverty threshold: 0-49%, 50-99%,
 100-124%, 125-149%, 150-184%, 185-199%, and 200%+.
 Hence, this ordinal index is a weighted sum of six information theory indexes
 (one for segregation of people with household income above from people
 with household income below each of the following percentages of the poverty
 line: 50%, 100%, 125%, 150%, 185%, and 200%).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Paragraph
Ordinal Information Theory Index for Income:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I use the Stata “rankseg” command to create a ordinal information theory
 index (equation 8) using number of household counts of bins for the following
 16 household income ranges: $0-9,999, $10,000-14,999, $15,000-19,999, $20,000-2
4,999, $25,000-29,999, $30,000-34,999, $35,000-39,999, $40,000-44,999, $45,000-4
9,999, $50,000-59,999, $60,000-74,999, $75,000-99,999, $100,000-124,999,
 $125,000-149,999, $150,000-199,999, and $200,000+.
 Hence, this ordinal index is a weighted sum of 15 information theory indexes,
 one for segregation of households with income above from households with
 income below each of the following income thresholds: $10,000, $15,000,
 $20,000, $25,000, $30,000, $35,000, $40,000, $45,000, $50,000, $60,000,
 $75,000, $100,000, $125,000, $150,000, and $200,000.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Paragraph
Black-White Information Theory Index for Race:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
For the simpler non-ordinal information theory indexes, I use Reardon and
 Townsend's 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

seg
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 command for a Theil's 
\begin_inset Formula $H$
\end_inset

 (equation 3) for racial categories White non-Hispanic and Black non-Hispanic
 (Reardon 2011, Reardon et al.
 2018).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Paragraph
Spatial Ordinal Information Theory Indexes for Poverty and for Income:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Following Reardon et al (2006), I create separate indexes (equation 9) that
 account for the population composition of nearby block groups up to each
 of the following radii 
\begin_inset Formula $r$
\end_inset

: 500m, 1000m, 2000m, 4000m, and 8000m.
\begin_inset Foot
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
The “rankseg” command doesn’t include a spatial option, so I create spatial-adju
sted ordinal bins.
 First, I create the proximity-based weight function 
\begin_inset Formula $w_{jk}$
\end_inset

 for every combination of block groups 
\begin_inset Formula $j$
\end_inset

 and 
\begin_inset Formula $k$
\end_inset

 (equation 5).
 For each group 
\begin_inset Formula $m$
\end_inset

 in each block group 
\begin_inset Formula $j$
\end_inset

, I create the spatially-weighted local population composition (LPC) function
 
\begin_inset Formula $LPC_{jm}$
\end_inset

 that divides the sum of all these weighted nearby-block-group populations
 in group 
\begin_inset Formula $m$
\end_inset

 by the sum of weighted nearby-block-group populations overall.
 
\begin_inset Formula $LPC_{jm}$
\end_inset

 multiplied by block group 
\begin_inset Formula $j$
\end_inset

's population then serve for the spatial-adjusted ordinal bins when I run
 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

rankseg
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 command by MSA with order zero to create MSA-level spatial ordinal information
 theory indexes.
 Correlations between spatial indexes and the aspatial index are decreasing
 in the radius the spatial index uses (from 0.98 with the 500m radius to
 0.76-0.77 with the 8000m radius).
 Index values generally decrease with spatial scale but much more in some
 MSAs than in others, suggesting income distribution across neighborhoods
 changes more sharply in some MSAs than in others.
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Paragraph
Spatial Black-White Information Theory Indexes for Race:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I adopt the spatial information theory index in equation 7, calculating
 spatial versions of the Black-White information theory measures of racial
 segregation above using the spatially-weighted LPC function to weight the
 aspatial racial population counts in the information theory equation.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Key Explanatory Variables: Land Use Regulation Measures
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The 2005 Wharton Residential Land Use Regulation Index (WRLURI) proxies
 for land use regulation.
 Gyourko, Saiz, and Summers (2008) discusses their 2005 survey of municipal
 Planning Directors or Chief Administrative Officers on residential land
 use regulation in 2,649 municipalities in the United States.
 Gyourko provides weights to aggregate the index into a 1999-MSA-level dataset,
 which I use (dropping municipalities outside year-1999 MSAs).
\begin_inset Foot
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
WRLURI data are available as of April 2020 at http://real-faculty.wharton.upenn.edu
/gyourko/land-use-survey/
\end_layout

\end_inset

 WRLURI decomposes into the following 11 subindices.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Local Political Pressure Index (LPPI) assesses the importance for 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

residential building activity and growth management
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 of local and county government, community pressure, city budget constraints,
 school crowding, opposition to growth, and local land conservation initiatives.
 Local political pressures may be a response to recent local population
 growth and diversification that I expect would slow future growth and integrati
on.
 County government importance may affect segregation more at a larger between-mu
nicipality spatial scale than do city council, city budget constraints,
 and city council opposition to growth.
 School crowding may increase segregation between school districts and school
 zones.
 I expect community pressure and citizen opposition to growth to primarily
 increase segregation at the smallest neighborhood spatial scales.
 Local land conservation ballot measures may reduce intra-jurisdiction segregati
on if open space protection makes affluent more willing to live in denser
 mixed-income neighborhoods, but otherwise may increase intra- or inter-jurisdic
tional segregation as lower income families who can't afford housing adjacent
 to open space amenities sort into outlying communities by proximity to
 amenities.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
State Political Involvement Index (SPII) reflects both the adoption of new
 statewide land use restrictions 1995-2005 and state legislative involvement
 in local 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

residential building activity and growth management.
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 New state land use restrictions likely slow not only housing growth but
 also neighborhood sorting, implying ambiguous segregation effects, because
 state governments may favor more inclusionary restrictions and statewide
 restrictions raise development costs in both new and old neighborhoods.
 I expect that state involvement generally reduces segregation at larger
 spatial scales but that specific state environmental rules and growth managemen
t policies vary widely in their effects.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
State Court Involvement Index (SCII) captures the tendency of state appellate
 courts to uphold municipal land use regulations.
 I expect this empowers municipalities to impose exclusionary zoning, reinforcin
g segregation across all spatial levels.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Local Zoning Approval Index (LZAI) reflects the number of local bodies required
 to approve any zoning change request.
 Local Planning Approval Index (LPAI) reflects the number of local bodies
 required to approve a project.
 Local Assembly Index (LAI) is an indicator for certain New England localities
 that require popular approval at an open town meeting for any zoning change.
 Added barriers to new and higher density housing likely reinforce segregation
 but could potentially slow neighborhood transitions toward segregation,
 particularly at smaller spatial scales.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Supply Restriction Index (SRI) reflects the presence of statutory limits
 on the number of building permits, number of units authorized per year,
 total number of multifamily dwellings, and number of units per multifamily
 building.
 I expect restricting total multifamily dwellings and units per multifamily
 building, by limiting housing density and mix, increases macro-segregation
 between high and low demand regions within growing MSAs.
 Limiting building permits and units authorized per year likely slows both
 new housing growth and neighborhood sorting, implying an ambiguous expected
 effect on segregation.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Density Restriction Index (DRI) is an indicator for having a one-acre minimum
 lot size requirement.
 I expect minimum lot size increases segregation by limiting both maximum
 housing density and affordable housing options.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Open Space Index (OSI) is an indicator for having open space requirements.
 Requiring lots to dedicate some portion for open space limits development
 options.
 Housing costs will rise on lots with open space rules.
 But neighborhoods that preserve open space amenities without explicitly
 limiting housing may be more amenable for the affluent to live and still
 permit lower income housing options.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Exactions Index (EI) is an indicator for having exactions on developers
 for a share of infrastructure costs related to the development.
 Exactions reduce new housing growth, but paying the cost of additional
 infrastructure may deter new developments segregated from other neighborhoods,
 with effects likely at larger spatial scales.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Approval Delay Index (ADI) captures the expected number of months between
 application and receipt of building permit.
 A slower permitting process raises fixed costs making some affordable housing
 projects financially infeasible, likely increasing segregation, but it
 could also slow neighborhood sorting, potentially extending a neighborhood
 transition period between segregated equilibrium states.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Control Variables
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
From decennial US Census 2000 SF1 and SF3 data files at the MSA level, I
 obtain the following MSA-level control variables: natural log of total
 MSA population in 2000, share of total MSA population who is Black only
 or Hispanic only, share of total MSA households with annual household income
 less than $20,000, and share of total MSA households with annual household
 income $60,000 or more.
\begin_inset Foot
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
I use year-2000 data instead of ACS 5-year 2012-2016 data due to challenges
 with crosswalking data from 2012-2016 boundaries to 2000 boundaries.
 Since I'm not concerned with a causal interpretation for these control
 variables, I would prefer 2012-2016 estimates for all variables to more
 precisely capture potential sources of variation in segregation outside
 of land use regulation but would need a more precise crosswalk.
\end_layout

\end_inset

 The Gini Index of Inequality measure of MSA income inequality comes from
 ACS 5-year 2016 MSA-level data crosswalked to year-2000 MSAs and PMSAs.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
MSA-level number of municipal jurisdictions in 2002 comes from a list of
 local government jurisdictions from the 2002 Census of Governments (COG).
 I create a count variable equal to the number of municipalities (cities,
 townships, etc.), which excludes county, school district, and other non-general-
purpose municipal governments.
 Joint city/county governments like San Francisco count only once, and separate
 county governments don't count at all.
 I attempt to follow Rothwell and Massey (2009, 2010) and Lens and Monkonnen
 (2016) in this definition.
 However, I multiply the number of municipalities by the number of general
 purpose governments.
 The 2002 COG file identifies a municipality's county but not MSA, so I
 use the Missouri Census Data Center's Geocorr program to match year-2000
 counties to year-2000 MSAs and PMSAs.
 The final variable reflects the mean of the product of the number of municipali
ties and number of general purpose governments within each county in the
 MSA.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Instrumental Variables
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
MSA-level 1982 Local Public Protective Inspection and Regulation Expenditures
 as a Share of Total Local Public Revenues comes from 1982 Census State
 and Local Government Finance Data at the individual jurisdiction level.
 I crosswalk these year-1982 jurisdictions into year-2000 MSAs.
 Dividing MSA-level total protective expenditures by MSA-level total revenues
 produces a protective expenditure share variable.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
MSA-level Number of Stream Segments, following Dawkins (2005), come from
 joining the 1991 USGS 48-state hydrography layer from 1:2,000,000-scale
 DLG data to NHGIS 2000 MSA boundary data in ArcGIS Pro.
 For each MSA, I count the number of stream segments at least 1km in length.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Results
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Information Theory Index of Income Segregation: Wharton Residential Land
 Use Regulation Index (WRLURI)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Tables 2 and 3 present results for how overall land use restrictiveness
 affects different measures of residential segregation by income.
 Table 2 measures residential segregation of households by household income
 level.
 Table 3 measures residential segregation of households by the ratio of
 household income to poverty threshold.
 Information theory index measures of segregation can range from zero under
 no segregation to one under complete segregation.
 Each table displays results of both OLS (odd columns) and IV (even columns)
 estimates for an aspatial (columns 1 and 2) and five spatial measures differing
 in the radius of their distance-based population weights: 500 meters (columns
 3 and 4), 1000 meters (columns 5 and 6), 2000 meters (columns 7 and 8),
 4000 meters (columns 9 and 10), and 8000 meters (columns 11 and 12).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Table 2 shows economically and statistically significant negative effects
 of WRLURI on the Information Theory Index measure of household income segregati
on in all specifications except only marginally statistically significant
 in the aspatial (OLS and IV) and the 500m radius (OLS) specifications.
 Both precision and magnitude of estimates increase with spatial scale.
 The variance across MSAs in income segregation decreases as spatial scale
 increases.
 Standardized point estimates for WRLURI attenuate almost proportionally
 up to the 4000m spatial scale.
 IV estimates roughly tripled the OLS coefficient estimate magnitudes.
 The IV is strong (
\begin_inset Formula $F=18.7$
\end_inset

), underidentification is rejected, and the null of exogenous instruments
 is not rejected.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
For IV results, a standard deviation increase in WRLURI decreases household
 income segregation 0.31 standard deviations (at the aspatial scale), 0.38
 standard deviations (at the 500m radius scale), 0.49 (1000m), 0.62 (2000m),
 0.73 (4000m), and 0.72 (8000m).
 This implies an increase in restrictiveness of land use regulation in St.
 Louis MSA from the 25th percentile to the 75th percentile (just below Riverside
) would reduce segregation 10% from the 76th to the 60th percentile for
 the 500m radius (just below Las Vegas) and 25% from 86th to 56th percentile
 for the 4000m radius (slightly below Oakland).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Table 3 presents results for the indices of segregation by ratio of a person's
 income to the poverty threshold.
 Coefficient estimates are also negative but about 30-50% smaller and only
 statistically significant for 2000m, 4000m, and 8000m spatial scales (1000m
 was marginally significant).
 For IV results, a standard deviation increase in WRLURI decreases poverty
 ratio segregation 0.14 standard deviations (at the aspatial scale), 0.20
 standard deviations (at the 500m radius scale), 0.28 (1000m), 0.40 (2000m),
 0.49 (4000m), and 0.46 (8000m).
 Again, the IV is strong (
\begin_inset Formula $F=18.7$
\end_inset

), underidentification is rejected, and the null of exogenous instruments
 is not rejected.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Information Theory Index of Income Segregation: WRLURI Components
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Individual components of WRLURI have associations with the information theory
 index of segregation by household income (Table 4) and by poverty ratio
 (Table 5) of varying signs, magnitudes, and significance.
 State involvement and approval delay appear to drive the overall negative
 effect of WRLURI; other types of regulation, such as residential density
 restrictions (lot area minimums) and local zoning approval complexity,
 may increase segregation.
 Open space requirements also may reduce segregation.
 Unlike findings in Lens and Monkonnen (2016), local political pressure
 and local project approval complexity appear to reduce rather than increase
 income segregation, at least at higher spatial scales.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Paragraph
Local Political Pressure Index (LPPI):
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
LPPI has a statistically significant negative association with all the indices
 of household income segregation (except only marginally significant for
 500m radius and for aspatial) but only in IV estimates, which suffer from
 weak instruments (
\begin_inset Formula $F=3.9$
\end_inset

) such that true standard errors may be larger.
 LPPI is especially vulnerable to endogeneity because it captures current
 public attitudes toward land use regulation issues and is much more likely
 determined by recent conditions.
 IV maginitudes range from 11 (aspatial) to 180 (2000m) times as large as
 the positive and insignificant OLS estimates.
 A one unit increase in LPPI reflects municipalities in an MSA increasing
 local political pressure by a standard deviation on average.
 For IV specifications, a standard deviation increase in LPPI reduces household
 income segregation by between .71 (aspatial) and 1.55 (8000m radius) standard
 deviations.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Paragraph
State Political Involvement Index (SPII):
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
SPII has a statistically significant negative association with all aspatial
 and spatial levels of segregation by household income except only marginially
 significant for the 500m IV specification and insignificant for the aspatial
 IV specification.
 The IV is strong (
\begin_inset Formula $F=15.2$
\end_inset

) but at the 500m scale nearly rejects the null of excludability with a
 0.07 Hansen J p-value.
 The aspatial IV estimate is just 12% larger in magnitude than the OLS estimate,
 but spatial IV estimates are 24% (500m) to 104% (8000m) larger in magnitude.
 A unit increase in SPII translates to state political involvement increasing
 in an MSA's municipalities by a standard deviation on average.
 IV results imply a standard deviation increase in SPII decreases aspatial
 segregation 0.25 standard deviations.
 Point estimates increase in magnitude with spatial scale from 0.29 (500m)
 to 0.62 (8000m) standard deviations.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
SPII has a statistically significant negative association with segregation
 by poverty ratio in all specifications except only a marginally significant
 negative effect for the 1000m spatial scale IV specification and no significant
 effect for 500m and aspatial IV specifications.
 Magnitudes are generally similar across all spatial scales in OLS, with
 a standard deviation increase in SPII associated with a 0.22 (aspatial)
 to 0.27 (4000m) standard deviation decrease in segregation by poverty ratio.
 However, in IV specifications, magnitudes range from 0.11 (aspatial) to
 0.42 (4000m) standard deviations.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Paragraph
State Court Involvement Index (SCII):
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
SCII has no statistically significant association with income segregation
 except a marginally significant negative effect for household income segregatio
n at the 4000m radius in the IV specification.
 Moreover, the IV's null of excludability is rejected in all SCII specifications
 (
\begin_inset Formula $p<0.05$
\end_inset

) except segregation by poverty ratio at the aspatial, 500m, and 1000m scales.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Paragraph
Local Zoning Approval Index (LZAI):
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
LZAI, an MSA's average number (0-6) of government bodies required to approve
 a local zoning change, has a statistically significant positive association
 with household income segregation in all specifications except only marginally
 significant at the 500m spatial scale in IV.
 Poverty ratio segregation is statistically significant in OLS at 500m,
 1000m, and 8000m scales but only marginally significant at 2000m and 4000m
 scales.
 Poverty ratio segregation is statistically significant in IV for 2000m,
 4000m, and 8000m scales.
 LZAI coefficient estimates are always positive, but IVs are weak at explaining
 variation in LZAI (
\begin_inset Formula $F=3.4$
\end_inset

).
 OLS point estimates imply a standard deviation increase in LZAI is associated
 with an increase of 0.10-0.14 standard deviations in segregation.
 However, IV point estimates imply a standard deviation increase in LZAI
 increases segregation by household income 0.84 (aspatial) to 1.95 (4000m)
 standard deviations and segregation by poverty ratio 0.36 (aspatial) to
 1.26 (8000m) standard deviations.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Paragraph
Local Project Approval Index (LPAI):
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
LPAI, an MSA's average number (0-6) of government bodies required to approve
 a local project, has a statistically significant positive association in
 OLS with segregation by poverty ratio at aspatial, 500m, and 1000m scales.
 LPAI has a marginally statistically significant positive association in
 OLS with 2000m-scale segregation by poverty ratio and with aspatial-, 500m-,
 1000m-, and 2000m-scale segregation by household income.
 Using IV, LPAI has a statistically significant negative association only
 with 8000m-scale by household income and marginally significant negative
 assocation with segregation by household income across aspatial and all
 spatial scales and with 8000m-scale segregation by poverty ratio.
 IVs provide fairly weak identification with an F-statistic of 4.5.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Using OLS, a standard deviation (s.d.) increase in LPAI is associated with
 an increase of 0.13 (aspatial, 500m, and 1000m scales) and 0.11 (2000m) s.d.
 in segregation by poverty ratio and 0.09 (aspatial and 2000m scales), 0.10
 (500m), and 0.11 (1000m) s.d.
 by household income.
 But using IV, the sign changes from positive to negative with an s.d.
 increase in LPAI associated with a decrease ranging from 0.57 (aspatial)
 to 1.08 (8000m) s.d.
 in segregration by household income and 0.82 s.d in 8000m-scale segregation
 by poverty ratio.
 If IVs are valid, this suggests added project approval veto points may
 either passively prolong transitional periods of neighborhoods sorting
 from one socioeconomic group to another or actively promote socioeconomic
 diversity in residential development, at least at larger spatial scales.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Paragraph
Local Assembly Index (LAI):
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
LAI has no statistically significant association with the information theory
 index of income segregation.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Paragraph
Density Restriction Index (DRI):
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
DRI, an MSA's share of municipalities with a one-acre minimum lot size for
 some lots, in OLS has a statistically significant positive association
 with the index of household income segregation across aspatial and all
 spatial scales and marginally significant positive association with aspatial-,
 2000m-, and 4000m-scale poverty ratio segregation.
 IV results are also always positive but marginally significant only for
 2000m- and 4000m-scale household income segregation.
 IV is weak (
\begin_inset Formula $F=2.3$
\end_inset

) in all DRI specifications.
 Excludability is rejected (
\begin_inset Formula $p<0.03$
\end_inset

) at all scales for household income segregation and at the 8000m scale
 for poverty ratio segregation.
 Using OLS, a standard deviation increase in DRI is associated with a 0.12-0.16
 s.d.
 increase in household income segregation and a 0.08-0.11 s.d.
 increase in poverty ratio segregation.
 Using IV, a standard deviation increase in DRI is associated with a 1.15
 (2000m scale) and 1.38 (4000m scale) s.d.
 increase in household income segregation.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Paragraph
Open Space Index (OSI):
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
OSI, an MSA's share of municipalities with open space requirements, has
 a negative and significant association with household income segregation
 in all spatial scales (only marginally significant at 500m scale) using
 IV and in only 8000m scale using OLS.
 OSI also has a negative and significant association with 4000m-scale poverty
 ratio segregation and marginally significant with 2000m and 8000m scales,
 using IV.
 A standard deviation increase in OSI decreases household income segregation
 1.08 s.d.
 (1000m scale), 1.36 s.d.
 (2000m scale), 1.61 s.d.
 (4000m scale), and 1.60 s.d.
 (8000m scale) using IV, about 20 times the magnitude using OLS.
 A standard deviation increase in OSI decreases poverty ratio segregation
 1.07 s.d (4000m) using OLS.
 The IVs are weak with an F-statistic of 4.4.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Paragraph
Exactions Index (EI):
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
EI, an MSA's share of municipalities that charge developers for public infrastru
cture expenses associated with their project, only has a statistically significa
nt association with the 4000m-scale household income segregation and only
 has a marginally significant association with the 2000m-scale household
 income segregation, using IV.
 A one standard deviation increase in EI is associated with a 0.70 s.d.
 decrease in 4000m-scale household income segregation.
 However, IV is weak (
\begin_inset Formula $F=4.4$
\end_inset

), and excludability is rejected (
\begin_inset Formula $p<0.05$
\end_inset

) at all scales for household income segregation.
 EI's coefficients are negative at all scales using IV but usually positive
 using OLS.
 EI has a positive and marginally significant association with aspatial
 household income segregation using OLS.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Paragraph
Supply Restrictions Index (SRI):
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
SRI, an MSA's municipalities average number (0-6) of types of restrictions
 on the quantity of new housing units, has a marginally significant negative
 association with all spatial indices of household income segregation.
 IV point estimates would indicate a standard deviation increase in SRI
 decreases spatial household income segregation 0.75 s.d.
 (500m), 1.00 s.d.
 (1000m), 1.31 s.d.
 (2000m), 1.55 s.d.
 (4000m), and 1.50 s.d.
 (8000m).
 This weakly suggests permit supply caps may prolong periods of neighborhood
 transition from one socioeconomic group to another.
 But the IVs are weak with an F-statistic of 2.7, suggesting the true standard
 errors may be even larger.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Paragraph
Approval Delay Index (ADI):
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
ADI, the average number of months for project approval, has a statistically
 significant negative association with household income segregation in all
 specifications.
 For segregation by poverty ratio, ADI is statistically significant and
 negative in all OLS specifications and at 2000m scale and above (marginally
 significant at 1000m) in IV specifications.
 IV magnitudes are 1.2-3.0 times as large as OLS point estimates.
 An s.d.
 increase in ADI decreases household income segregation 0.37 s.d.
 (aspatial), 0.44 s.d.
 (500m), 0.56 s.d (1000m), 0.71 s.d.
 (2000m), and 0.83 s.d.
 (4000m and 8000m).
 The IVs are strong with an F-statistic of 16.1.
 This suggests project delays may prolong neighborhood transitions from
 one socioeconomic group to another.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Information Theory Index of Black-White Segregation
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Table 6 shows WRLURI also has an economically significant negative effect
 on Black-White segregation, with economic magnitude and precision increasing
 with spatial scale.
 WRLURI has a statistically significant negative association with Black-White
 segregation in all OLS specifications but only at 8000m and 4000m scales
 and marginally at the 2000m scale in IV regressions.
 All coefficients are small, but the spatial coefficient is 65% (2000m),
 104% (4000m), and 150% (8000m) larger than the aspatial coefficient in
 the IV regressions.
 A standard deviation increase in WRLURI decreases Black-White segregation
 0.34 s.d.
 (2000m), 0.42 s.d.
 (4000m), and 0.51 s.d.
 (8000m).
 IVs are overidentified and strong with an F-statistic of 18.7.
 Null of exogenous exclusion restrictions for IVs is not rejected.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Conclusion
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Residential segregation by income inhibits upward economic mobility.
 Land use regulation has a theoretically ambiguous effect on segregation.
 Prior empirical literature relies on IVs that may not be valid and ignores
 the spatial dimension of segregation.
 Using alternative IVs, my regression results indicate land use regulation,
 as measured by WRLURI, modestly reduces MSA residential segregation by
 income, as measured by the spatial information theory index.
 However, the results are heterogeneous in both sign and magnitude across
 types of land use regulation and in magnitude across measures of segregation.
 The analysis closely follows the Lens and Monkonnen (2016) regressions
 but uses different years of data, includes over 290 MSAs instead of just
 the 95 largest MSAs, includes dependent variables with different spatial
 scales, and includes instrumental variables.
 The findings of statistically significant and negative effects of WRLURI
 on spatial segregation, albeit with modest magnitudes, contrast with the
 insignificant results of Lens and Monkonnen (2016) for aspatial segregation.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Why does this paper find a significant negative effect of WRLURI on income
 segregation when Lens and Monkonnen (2016) found no significant effect
 for the overall WRLURI? Segregation measures accounting for nearby neighborhood
s better capture the relationship than the aspatial measure.
 Additionally, the IVs may help address endogeneity by which some less segregate
d areas may choose to adopt less restrictive land use policies.
 Also, Lens and Monkonnen (2016) studied only MSAs with over 500,000 people,
 whereas this paper nearly tripled observations by including smaller MSAs
 for which regulations may have less effect on available housing supply.
 Future work could examine how labor demand, housing demand, and other metropoli
tan characteristics may interact with land use regulation to affect segregation.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Land use regulations appear to, on net, help counteract other market forces
 driving segregation by income within MSAs.
 Land use regulation may slow neighborhood sorting by income by containing
 development to already developed areas and making it more difficult for
 higher income residents to develop or redevelop areas to isolate themselves
 from lower income residents within a given MSA.
 WRLURI closely correlates with a Census tract's ratio of housing costs
 to upward mobility (Chetty et al.
 2020).
 MSA-wide land use regulation may drive income sorting between highly-regulated
 MSAs rather than within and also shift population growth toward less regulated
 MSAs.
 Future research should explore how much of the negative finding is explained
 by spillover effects between MSAs.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
While spatial and aspatial income segregation have similar coefficient signs,
 point estimate magnitude rises with spatial scale, suggesting regulations
 overall are more likely to promote residential integration at broader levels
 (e.g.
 high school zone) than at narrower spatial scales.
 Future research could explore potential mechanisms like regulations' effects
 on neighborhood filtering and the size versus frequency of new residential
 development projects.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Segregation indices by poverty ratio do not capture variation in income
 for anyone earning more than 200% of the poverty threshold.
 Thus, weaker results for segregation by poverty ratio imply regulation
 plays a larger role in segregation of higher income households, at least
 for lower spatial scales, consistent with Lens and Monkonnen (2016)'s finding
 for aspatial segregation of high income households.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Consistent with Lens and Monkonnen (2016), results are heterogeneous across
 subindices.
 Subindices roughly proxy different regulatory components in land use.
 Results suggest some types of land use regulations decrease (and others
 increase) residential segregation by income.
 Because each subindex specification relegates all other subindices into
 the error term, identification is more questionable.
 Future work should examine the causal effects of specific land use policies
 more thoroughly.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Nonetheless, this paper's findings indicate that increasing the state role
 in land use regulation can reduce income segregation within MSAs.
 Statewide political coalitions may be more likely than local political
 coalitions to prioritize affordable housing or neighborhood income diversity.
 Future research could examine states scoring highly in state involvement
 like Washington and Oregon, which both require local governments to adopt
 comprehensive land use plans that include urban growth boundaries and affordabl
e housing plans subject to state standards.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
While state involvement and approval delay policies trade off reducing within-MS
A segregation and increasing between-MSA segregation, other regulations
 like local zoning approval complexity and density restrictions may unambiguousl
y increase segregation.
 Governments may want to reduce the number of veto points in their zoning
 approval process.
 Residential development that encourages income-diverse neighborhoods may
 require more flexible zoning.
 Fewer veto points could make it easier to negotiate terms of beneficial
 residential developments.
 Lastly, relaxing density restrictions like lot area minimums could make
 it possible for lower income people to live in neighborhoods with higher
 land values.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Newpage pagebreak
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
\start_of_appendix
Appendix
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Aspatial Segregation Measures in Rothwell and Massey (2010)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The dissimilarity index, a popular evenness measure, compares a group’s
 population share in each sub-area unit to that in the MSA overall.
 The Dissimilarity Index of Poverty (
\begin_inset Formula $D$
\end_inset

) is:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Formula 
\[
D=\sum_{j}\frac{P_{j}\times|\frac{LP_{j}}{P_{j}}-\frac{LP}{P}|}{2\times LP\times(1-\frac{LP_{j}}{P_{j}})}
\]

\end_inset

 where 
\begin_inset Formula $j$
\end_inset

 is sub-area unit 
\begin_inset Formula $j$
\end_inset

, 
\begin_inset Formula $P$
\end_inset

 is population, and 
\begin_inset Formula $LP$
\end_inset

 is population below poverty.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Rothwell and Massey (2010) use another evenness measure, a population-weighted
 Neighborhood Gini Index of inequality in median household income across
 sub-areas:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Formula 
\[
Gini=\frac{N+1}{N-1}-\frac{2\times[\sum_{j}(O{}_{j}\times P_{j}\times M{}_{j})]}{N\times(N-1)\times[\sum_{j}(P_{j}\times M{}_{j})]}
\]

\end_inset

where 
\begin_inset Formula $N$
\end_inset

 is number of sub-areas, 
\begin_inset Formula $M_{j}$
\end_inset

 is median income in subarea 
\begin_inset Formula $j$
\end_inset

, and 
\begin_inset Formula $O_{j}$
\end_inset

 is rank of sub-area 
\begin_inset Formula $j$
\end_inset

 by median income.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Exposure reflects the degree to which different groups reside in common
 areas.
 Rothwell and Massey (2010)'s exposure index measures the ratio of the likelihoo
d a randomly-selected person in an MSA belongs to a different population
 group as another person randomly-selected from their sub-area to the share
 of the randomly-selected person's population group in an MSA.
 The Exposure (of Poor to Affluent) Index denoted by 
\begin_inset Formula $X$
\end_inset

 is:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Formula 
\[
X=\frac{\sum_{j}\left(\frac{LP_{j}}{LP}\times\frac{HP_{j}}{P_{j}}\right)}{\sum_{j}\frac{LP_{j}}{P_{j}}}
\]

\end_inset

 for sub-area 
\begin_inset Formula $j$
\end_inset

, population 
\begin_inset Formula $P$
\end_inset

, population in poverty 
\begin_inset Formula $LP$
\end_inset

, and affluent population 
\begin_inset Formula $HP$
\end_inset

.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Construction of Aspatial Information Theory Index Measures of Segregation
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
To construct aspatial segregation measures, I merge ACS 2016 5-year block-group
 level data with the 2016 block group to 2000 MSA crosswalk.
 Then I create variables for number of block groups in each MSA, total populatio
n in each MSA, MSA population below poverty, total number of households
 in each MSA, total number of households with income below $25,000 in each
 MSA, mean block-group-level median household income in each MSA, rank of
 a block group’s median household income within each MSA, and an MSA identifier
 variable.
 Next, I construct the following MSA-level information theory index measures
 of segregation: 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Paragraph
Ordinal Information Theory Index (Theil's H) for Poverty: 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I use the Stata “rankseg” command to create a ordinal information theory
 index using population counts of bins for the following percentage ranges
 of the poverty threshold: 0-49%, 50-99%, 100-124%, 125-149%, 150-184%,
 185-199%, and 200%+.
 I set order at zero.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Paragraph
Ordinal Information Theory Index for Income: 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I use the Stata “rankseg” command to create a ordinal information theory
 index using number of household counts of bins for the following household
 income ranges: $0-9,999, $10,000-14,999, $15,000-19,999, $20,000-24,999,
 $25,000-29,999, $30,000-34,999, $35,000-39,999, $40,000-44,999, $45,000-49,999,
 $50,000-59,999, $60,000-74,999, $75,000-99,999, $100,000-124,999, $125,000-149,
999, $150,000-199,999, and $200,000+.
 I set order at zero.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Paragraph
Information Theory Indexes for Race: 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
For the simpler non-ordinal information theory indexes, I create a 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

Theil's H
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 index variable 
\begin_inset Formula $H$
\end_inset

, using the Reardon and Townsend (2018)'s Stata 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

seg
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 command.
 The MSA-level indexes reflect the following equation (equation 3) from
 Reardon (2011) and Reardon, Bischoff, Owens, and Townsend (2018): 
\begin_inset Formula 
\[
H=1-\frac{\sum_{j=1}^{J}\left(\frac{P_{j}}{P}E_{j}\right)}{E}
\]

\end_inset

where 
\begin_inset Formula 
\[
E=\begin{cases}
\sum_{m=1}^{2}\frac{P_{m}}{P}\ln(\frac{P}{P_{m}}) & \textrm{if}\:0<\frac{P_{m}}{P}<1\\
0 & \textrm{otherwise}
\end{cases}
\]

\end_inset


\begin_inset Formula 
\[
E_{j}=\begin{cases}
\sum_{m=1}^{2}\frac{P_{jm}}{P}\ln(\frac{P}{P_{jm}}) & \textrm{if}\:0<\frac{P_{jm}}{P}<1\\
0 & \textrm{otherwise}
\end{cases}
\]

\end_inset

for block group 
\begin_inset Formula $j$
\end_inset

, population 
\begin_inset Formula $P$
\end_inset

, and two racial categories 
\begin_inset Formula $m$
\end_inset

.
 I calculate the White-Black race-pair index.
 White is the White non-Hispanic population, and Black is the Black non-Hispanic
 population.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Construction of Spatial Information Theory Index Measures of Segregation
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
After creating MSA-level aspatial segregation measures, I add the MSA identifier
 variable to a datafile from the NBER Census Block Group Distance Database
 and divide the NBER block group distance datafile into separate files by
 MSA.
 The NBER datafile includes the distance in miles between every pair of
 2010 block groups within 50 miles of one another.
 NBER calculates great-circle distances using the Haversine formula from
 internal points in the block group (point closest to a block group’s geographic
 center that is within the boundaries of the block group).
 I add all the block-group-level population count variables to each file
 twice (one corresponding to block group one and the other corresponding
 to block group two) so that each block group pair has their individual
 block group population counts for each poverty and income category.
 Next, I create the following distance-based segregation measures (but only
 report regressions using information theory indexes): 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Paragraph
Spatial Ordinal Information Theory Indexes for Poverty and for Income: 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Following Reardon et al.
 (2006), I create separate indexes that account for the population composition
 of nearby block groups up to each of the following radii 
\begin_inset Formula $r$
\end_inset

: 500m, 1000m, 2000m, and 4000m.
 The “rankseg” command doesn’t include a spatial option, so I create spatial-adj
usted ordinal bins.
 First, I create the biweight proximity function (equation 5): 
\begin_inset Formula 
\[
w_{jk}=\begin{cases}
[1-(\frac{d_{jk}}{r})^{2}]^{2} & \textrm{if}\:d_{jk}<r\\
0 & {\textstyle \mathrm{otherwise}}
\end{cases}
\]

\end_inset

for every combination of block groups 
\begin_inset Formula $j$
\end_inset

 and 
\begin_inset Formula $k$
\end_inset

.
 For each income group 
\begin_inset Formula $m$
\end_inset

 in each block group 
\begin_inset Formula $p$
\end_inset

, I create the spatially-weighted local population composition (LPC) function
 (equation 6): 
\begin_inset Formula 
\[
LPC_{jm}=\frac{\sum_{k\in J}P{}_{km}\times w{}_{jk}dk}{\sum_{k\in J}P{}_{k}\times w{}_{jk}dk}
\]

\end_inset

that divides the sum of all these weighted nearby-block-group populations
 in group 
\begin_inset Formula $m$
\end_inset

 by the sum of weighted nearby-block-group populations overall.
 I weight each aspatial population count bin by 
\begin_inset Formula $LPC_{jm}$
\end_inset

 to create spatial-adjusted ordinal bins and run 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

rankseg
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 command by MSA with order zero to create MSA-level spatial ordinal information
 theory indexes.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Paragraph
Spatial Information Theory Indexes for Race: 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Similarly to the spatial information theory index in equation 8, I follow
 same procedure to calculate spatial versions of the Black-White information
 theory measures of racial segregation above using the spatially-weighted
 LPC function to weight the aspatial racial population counts in the information
 theory equation.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Construction of Control Variables
\end_layout

\begin_layout Paragraph
MSA-Level US Census 2000 Control Variables:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
From the decennial US Census 2000 SF1 and SF3 data files at the MSA level,
 I obtain the following MSA-level control variables: the natural log of
 total MSA population in 2000, share of the total MSA population who is
 Black only or Hispanic only, share of total MSA households with annual
 household income less than $20,000, and share of total MSA households with
 annual household income at least $60,000.
\begin_inset Foot
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
I use year-2000 data instead of ACS 5-year 2012-2016 data due to challenges
 with crosswalking data from 2012-2016 boundaries to 2000 boundaries.
 Since I'm not concerned with a causal interpretation for these control
 variables, I would prefer 2012-2016 estimates for all variables to more
 precisely capture potential sources of variation in segregation outside
 of land use regulation but would need a more precise crosswalk.
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Paragraph
MSA-Level ACS 2016 5-year Gini Index of Income Inequality:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The Gini measure of MSA income inequality comes from ACS 5-year 2016 MSA-level
 data.
 I use the Missouri Census Data Center's Geocorr program to crosswalk CBSA-level
 Gini Index of Inequality from ACS 2016 5-year to year 2000 MSAs and PMSAs
 using population-based weights.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Paragraph
MSA-Level Number of Municipal Jurisdictions in 2002:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Jurisdictional fragmentation likely increases income segregation.
 Fragmenting municipal services within an MSA will increase the incentive
 for high income to self sort into more expensive neighborhoods by exacerbating
 neighborhood quality differences.
 It also will encourage high income municipalities to restrict housing available
 for lower income families to avoid free riding by low income families and
 to capture rent from local housing demand.
 I obtain a list of local government jurisdictions from the 2002 Census
 of Governments (COG) and create a count variable equal to the number of
 municipalities (cities, townships, etc.), which excludes county, school
 district, and other non-general-purpose municipal governments.
 Joint city/county governments like San Francisco count only once and separate
 county governments don't count at all.
 I attempt to follow Rothwell and Massey (2009, 2010) and Lens and Monkonnen
 (2016) in this definition.
 The 2002 COG file identifies a municipality's county but not MSA, so I
 use the Missouri Census Data Center's Geocorr program to match year-2000
 counties to year-2000 MSAs and PMSAs.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
IV Construction
\end_layout

\begin_layout Paragraph
MSA-Level 1982 Local Public Protective Inspection and Regulation Expenditures
 as a Share of Total Local Public Revenues: 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Saiz (2010) uses this variable to instrument for WRLURI in its regressions
 on housing supply elasticity.
\begin_inset Foot
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
Saiz (2010) explores the determinants of housing supply elasticity and estimates
 housing supply elasticities of different MSAs.
 His conceptual model of city housing supply predicts that price sensitivity
 to demand shocks and productivity and amenities decrease with land availability
 and that population size is independent of land availability.
 He runs a 3SLS with IVs for log WRLURI (1982 log protective inspection
 and regulation spending share of public revenues, 1971 nontraditional Christian
 share, and 1940-1970 city decline dummy) and for housing quantity (hours
 of sun, immigration shocks, and Bartik employment shift-share and interaction
 with share of undevelopable geography).
 Share of undevelopable land is negatively associated with housing supply
 elasticity and positively associated with housing price levels and growth,
 1970-2000, controlling for regional effects and coastal markets.
 Share of undevelopable land and WRLURI are closely and positively associated
 and can describe housing supply elasticity.
 Log of local public expenditures on protective inspection and regulation
 as a share of total public revenues is strongly positively associated with
 log WRLURI.
 Non-traditional Christian share of population is strongly negatively associated
 with WRLURI (presumably via evangelical emphasis on individualism and limited
 government).
 Geographic constraints in growing cities and higher housing prices contributed
 to 2005 land use regulation.
 I adopt the 1982 log protective inspection and regulation spending share
 of public revenues to instrument for WRLURI in my segregaation regressions
 on the assumption that this variable only affects segregation through its
 association with land use regulation.
\end_layout

\end_inset

 I adopt it for my segregation regressions under the assumption that protective
 inspection and regulation spending only affects segregation through land
 use regulation.
 To create the protective inspection and regulation variable, I use 1982
 Census State and Local Government Finance Data at the individual jurisdiction
 level and crosswalk these year-1982 jurisdictions into year-2000 MSAs.
\begin_inset Foot
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
1982 Census State and Local Government Finance Data at the individual jurisdicti
on level comes from https://www.census.gov/programs-surveys/gov-finances/data/hist
orical-data.html.
 I crosswalk changes in geographic GOVS ID over time and convert from 1982
 GOVS ID to 2002 FIPS county code using Census of Governments files: (IDxWalk.txt
 and GOVS_to_FIPS_Codes_State_&_County_2007.xls).
 I adjust 2002 FIPS county codes for certain governments using David Dorn’s
 list of changes since 1982 to reflect county boundaries in 2000 (https://www.ddo
rn.net/data/FIPS_County_Code_Changes.pdf).
 Otherwise, I assume county boundaries are unchanged between 1982 and 2002.
 Missouri Census Data Center provides a 2000 county to 2000 PMSA and 2000
 MSACMSA crosswalk with land area weights (http://mcdc.missouri.edu/applications/g
eocorr.html).
 This paper defines 2000 MSAs as all 2000 PMSAs and MSAs (CMSAs are combinations
 of PMSAs and are thus ignored).
\end_layout

\end_inset

 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
After merging the 1982 state and local government finance data with the
 crosswalk, I collapse the dataset by 2000 MSA, creating variables for total
 protective inspection and regulation expenditures and total revenues by
 all local government jurisdictions in 1982 within the 2000 MSA counties,
 using county to MSA land area weights.
 Dividing MSA-level total protective expenditures by MSA-level total revenues
 produces a protective expenditure share variable.
 I use the log of protective expenditure share as an instrumental variable
 in my primary specifications.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Paragraph
MSA-Level Number of Streams Instrumental Variable:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Following Dawkins (2005), I join the 1991 USGS 48-state hydrography layer
 from 1:2,000,000-scale DLG data to NHGIS 2000 MSA boundary data in ArcGIS
 Pro.
\begin_inset Foot
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
Dawkins (2005) examines how local government fragmentation affects residential
 segregation by race across neighborhoods and jurisdictions.
 He uses 1980-2000 US Census of Population and Housing and USGS data on
 number of rivers.
 He expects higher income households will offer higher bids for housing
 in jurisdictions with more local public services if marginal valuation
 of public services rises faster with income than does demand for housing.
 Tiebout choice should thus increase income sorting across jurisdictions,
 and, given Black-White income/wealth gap, increase racial sorting across
 jurisdictions.
 Tiebout choice may also increase racial segregation due to race-correlated
 public services preference heterogeneity and preferences for living near
 people of same race or near people of advantaged race.
 He runs a 2SLS region fixed effects regression for an MSA-level Gini segregatio
n measure on a Herfindahl index of population shares in each jurisdiction
 to measure Tiebout choice instrumented by (1) whether state adopted Dillon’s
 rule restricting local control over incorporation, fiscal policy, and legislati
on; and (2) number of rivers and streams.
 A 10% increase in Tiebout choice increases segregation across neighborhoods
 by no more than 1% and across jurisdictions by 4-7%.
 I adopt the number of rivers measure to instrument for land use regulation.
 If its effect on income segregation just runs through Tiebout choice as
 assumed in this paper, it should be valid for instrumenting land use regulation
, controlling for number of jurisdictions.
 But number of rivers may aid segregation even in absence of land use regulation
 or make historic restrictions on residential location more difficult to
 overcome due to lower social interaction, perhaps resolvable via controls.
 Dillon’s rule, originating in 1873 Iowa, rapidly adopted by other state
 courts and bolstered by the US Supreme Court in 1907 and 1923, can directly
 affect local discretion to set land use regulations but may be associated
 with other state and local policies influencing segregation.
 Richardson, Gough, and Puentes (2003) argues “judicial attitudes and constituti
onal or legislative priorities” largely randomly determine whether a state
 holds to Dillon’s Rule.
 
\end_layout

\end_inset

 I export the attribute table identifying the list of stream segments in
 each MSA to a CSV file and import the data to Stata.
 For each MSA, I count the number of stream segments at least 1km in length.
 I also calculate the total length of all stream segments within each MSA
 but currently only use the stream count variable.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Combining Data from Different Years and Geographic Units
\end_layout

\begin_layout Paragraph
2016 Block Group to 2000 MSA Crosswalk:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Missouri Census Data Center matches every 2000 Census block to its corresponding
 2000 Census PMSA or MSA.
 NHGIS crosswalks 2000 Census blocks to 2010 Census blocks.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Paragraph
ACS 2016 5-Year Block-Group-Level Data File:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I create a single data file with ACS 2016 5-year block-group level data
 from all 50 states and DC, including geographic, population, housing, income,
 and race variables.
 I merge ACS 2016 5-year block-group level data with the 2016 block group
 to 2000 MSA crosswalk.
 Block-group-level median household income is top coded at $250,000 and
 usually bottom coded at $2,500.
 I assume all block groups with median household income $250,000 or greater
 equal $250,000 and with $2,500 or less equal $2,500.
 For block groups with alternative bottom coding, I similarly assume the
 median household income equals the bottom code.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Preparing Regressions
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I combine all these variables into a single data file and regress various
 measures of segregation on the WRLURI and its components, using ln(2000
 population), 2016 Gini, share of households with income below $20,000 in
 2000, share of households with income $60,000 or more in 2000, share of
 population in 2000 who is Black only or Hispanic only, and number of municipal
 jurisdictions in 2002.
 To instrument for the land use regulation variables, I use number of streams
 from the 1991 USGS hydgrography layer and 1982 local public protective
 inspection and regulation expenditures as a share of total local public
 revenues.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Newpage pagebreak
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-40"

\end_inset

Acs, Gregory, Rolf Pendall, Mark Treskon, and Amy Khare (2017) 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

The Cost of Segregation: National Trends and the Case of Chicago, 1990-2010.
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 
\emph on
Urban Institute
\emph default
.
 https://www.urban.org/sites/default/files/publication/89201/the_cost_of_segregati
on_final.pdf.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-12"

\end_inset

Albouy, David and Gabriel Erhlich (2018) “Housing productivity and the social
 cost of land-use restrictions.” 
\emph on
Journal of Urban Economics
\emph default
 107: 101-120.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-39"

\end_inset

Amior, Michael and Alan Manning (June 2015) “The Persistence of Local Joblessnes
s.” Working Paper, Centre for Economic Performance Discussion Paper No 1357.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-38"

\end_inset

Andersson, Fredrik and Tom Mayock (2014) “How does home equity affect mobility?”
 
\emph on
Journal of Urban Economics
\emph default
 84: 23-39.
 https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jue.2014.08.004.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-30"

\end_inset

Bartik, Timothy J.
 (1991) 
\emph on
Who Benefits from State and Local Economic Development Policies?
\emph default
 Kalamazoo, MI: W.E.
 Upjohn Institute for Employment Research.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-29"

\end_inset

Berry, Christopher (2001) “Land Use Regulation and Residential Segregation:
 Does Zoning Matter?” 
\emph on
American Law and Economics Review
\emph default
 3, No.
 2: 251-274.
 https://www.jstor.org/stable/42705390.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-28"

\end_inset

Bischoff, Kendra and Sean F.
 Reardon (2014) “Residential Segregation by Income, 1970-2009.” In 
\emph on
Diversity and Disparities: America Enters a New Century
\emph default
, edited by John Logan, Chapter 7, 208-233.
 Russell Sage Foundation.
 https://www.russellsage.org/publications/diversity-and-disparities.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-26-1"

\end_inset

Bloze, Gintautas and Morten Skak (November 2016) “Housing equity, residential
 mobility and commuting.” 
\emph on
Journal of Urban Economics
\emph default
 96: 156-65.
 https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jue.2016.09.003.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-27"

\end_inset

Bricker, Jesse and Brian Bucks (January 2016) “Negative home equity, economic
 insecurity, and household mobility over the Great Recession.” 
\emph on
Journal of Urban Economics
\emph default
 91: 1-12.
 https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jue.2015.10.001.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-25"

\end_inset

Brown, Jennifer and David A.
 Matsa (June 2020) “Locked in by leverage: Job search during the housing
 crisis.” 
\emph on
Journal of Financial Economics
\emph default
 136, Issue 3: 623-648.
 https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jfineco.2019.11.001.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-12"

\end_inset

Chetty, Raj, John Friedman, Nathaniel Hendren, Maggie R.
 Jones, and Sonya Porter (2018) 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

The Opportunity Atlas: Mapping the Childhood Roots of Social Mobility.
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 National Bureau of Economic Research Working Paper 25147.
 https://doi.org/10.3386/w25147.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-37"

\end_inset

Chetty, Raj and Nathaniel Hendren (August 2018) “The Impacts of Neighborhoods
 on Intergenerational Mobility II: County-Level Estimates.” 
\emph on
The Quarterly Journal of Economics
\emph default
 133, Issue 3: 1163-1228.
 https://doi.org/10.1093/qje/qjy006.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-10"

\end_inset

Chetty, Raj, Nathaniel Hendren, Maggie R.
 Jones, and Sonya Porter (May 2020) 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

Race and Economic Opportunity in the United States: an Intergenerational
 Perspective.
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 
\emph on
The Quarterly Journal of Economics 
\emph default
135, Issue 2: 711-783.
 https://doi.org/10.1093/qje/qjz042.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-36"

\end_inset

Chetty, Raj, Nathaniel Hendren, Patrick Kline, and Emmanuel Saez (2014)
 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

Where is the land of opportunity? The geography of intergenerational mobility
 in the United States
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 
\emph on
The Quarterly Journal of Economics
\emph default
 129(4), 1553-1623.
 https://doi.org/10.1093/qje/qju022.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-35"

\end_inset

Chetty, Raj, Michael Steppner, Sarah Abraham, Shelby Lin, Benjamin Scuderi,
 Nicholas Turner, Augustin Bergeron, and David Cutler (2016) 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

The Association Between Income and Life Expectancy in the United States,
 2001-2014.
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 
\emph on
JAMA
\emph default
 315, 16: 1750-1766.
 doi:10.1001/jama.2016.4226.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-23"

\end_inset

Coulson, N.
 Edward, and Paul L.E.
 Grieco (January 2013).
 “Mobility and mortgages: Evidence from the PSID.” 
\emph on
Regional Science and Urban Economics
\emph default
 43, Issue 1: 1-7.
 https://doi.org/10.1016/j.regsciurbeco.2012.10.004.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-20"

\end_inset

Cutler, David M.
 and Edward L.
 Glaeser (August 1997) 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

Are Ghettos Good or Bad?
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 
\emph on
The Quarterly Journal of Economics
\emph default
 112, Issue 3: 827-872.
 https://doi.org/10.1162/003355397555361.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-22"

\end_inset

Dawkins, Casey J.
 (November 2005).
 “Tiebout choice and residential segregation by race in US metropolitan
 areas, 1980-2000” 
\emph on
Regional Science and Urban Economics
\emph default
 35, Issue 6: 734-755.
 https://doi.org/10.1016/j.regsciurbeco.2005.01.002.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-30"

\end_inset

ESRI (2020) ArcGIS Pro.
 Redlands, CA: Environmental Systems Research Institute.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-21"

\end_inset

Ewing, Reid, Shima Hamidi, James B.
 Grace, and Yehua Dennis Wei (April 2016) 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

Does urban sprawl hold down upward mobility?
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 
\emph on
Landscape and Urban Planning
\emph default
 148: 80-88.
 https://doi.org/10.1016/j.landurbplan.2015.11.012.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-20"

\end_inset

Ferreira, Fernando, Joseph Gyourko, and Joseph Tracy (July 2010) “Housing
 busts and household mobility.” 
\emph on
Journal of Urban Economics
\emph default
 68, Issue 1: 34-45.
 https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jue.2009.10.007.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-11"

\end_inset

Fogli, Alessandra and Guerrieri, Veronica (2019).
 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

The End of the American Dream? Inequality and Segregation in US Cities.
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 University of Chicago, Becker Friedman Institute for Economics Working
 Paper No.
 2019-99.
 http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3435823.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-19"

\end_inset

Galster, George and Patrick Sharkey (2017) “Spatial foundations of inequality:
 A conceptual model and empirical overview.” 
\emph on
RSF: The Russell Sage Foundation Journal of the Social Sciences
\emph default
 3, no.
 2: 1-33.
 https://www.rsfjournal.org/content/rsfjss/3/2/1.full.pdf.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-18"

\end_inset

Ganong, Peter and Daniel Shoag (November 2017) “Why has regional income
 convergence in the U.S.
 declined?” 
\emph on
Journal of Urban Economics
\emph default
 102: 76-90.
 https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jue.2017.07.002.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-17"

\end_inset

Glaeser, Edward and Joseph Gyourko (2005) “Urban Decline and Durable Housing.”
 
\emph on
Journal of Political Economy
\emph default
 113, no.
 2: 345-75.
 https://www.journals.uchicago.edu/doi/pdf/10.1086/427465.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-16"

\end_inset

Glaeser, Edward and Joseph Gyourko (2018).
 “The Economic Implications of Housing Supply.” 
\emph on
Journal of Economic Perspectives
\emph default
 32, No.
 1: 3-30.
 https://pubs.aeaweb.org/doi/pdfplus/10.1257/jep.32.1.3.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-19"

\end_inset

Graif, Corina and Stephen A.
 Matthews (2017).
 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

The Long Arm of Poverty: Extended and Relational Geographies of Child Victimizat
ion and Neighborhood Violence Exposures.
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 Justice Quarterly 34, 6: 1096-1125.
 https://doi.org/10.1080/07418825.2016.1276951.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-17"

\end_inset

Gyourko, Joseph, Albert Saiz, and Anita Summers (March 2008) 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

A New Measure of the Local Regulatory Environment for Housing Markets: The
 Wharton Residential Land Use Regulatory Index.
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 
\emph on
Urban Studies
\emph default
 45, 3: 693-729.
 https://doi.org/10.1177/0042098007087341.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-1"

\end_inset

Hilber, Christian A.L.
 (May 2010).
 “New housing supply and the dilution of social capital.” 
\emph on
Journal of Urban Economics
\emph default
 67, Issue 3: 419-37.
 https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jue.2009.12.001.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-21"

\end_inset

Hipp, John R.
 and Adam Boessen (May 2013) 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

Egohoods as waves washing across the city: A new measure of “neighborhoods”.
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 
\emph on
Criminology
\emph default
 51, Issue 2: 287-327.
 https://doi.org/10.1111/1745-9125.12006.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-6"

\end_inset

Hodler, Roland, Michele Valsecchi, and Alberto Vesperoni (2017) “Ethnic
 Geography: Measurement and Evidence” CESifo Working Paper Series No.
 6720.
 https://ssrn.com/abstract=3098275.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-19"

\end_inset

Hoxby, Caroline, M.
 (2000) "Does Competition among Public Schools Benefit Students and Taxpayers?"
 
\emph on
American Economic Review
\emph default
 90, No.
 5: 1209-1238.
 https://pubs.aeaweb.org/doi/pdfplus/10.1257/aer.90.5.1209.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-2"

\end_inset

Iceland, John, Daniel H.
 Weinberg, and Erika Steinmetz (August 2002) “Racial and Ethnic Residential
 Segregation in the United States: 1980-2000” Census 2000 Special Reports.
 https://www.census.gov/hhes/www/housing/housing_patterns/front_toc.html.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-26"

\end_inset

Intrator, Jake, Jonathan Tannen, and Douglas S.
 Massey (November 2016) “Segregation by race and income in the United States
 1970-2010.” 
\emph on
Social Science Research
\emph default
 60: 45-60.
 https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ssresearch.2016.08.003.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-7"

\end_inset

Jargowsky, Paul A.
 (2018) “The Persistence of Segregation in the 21st Century,” 
\emph on
Law and Inequality: Journal of Theory and Practice
\emph default
 36, no.
 2: 207-230.
 https://heinonline.org/HOL/P?h=hein.journals/lieq36&i=215.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-9"

\end_inset

Jargowsky, Paul A.
 and Christopher A.
 Wheeler (November 2017) “Economic Segregation in US Metropolitan Areas,
 1970-2010.” Paper Prepared for the 21st Century Cities Initiative.
 http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3454612.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-28"

\end_inset

Kline, Patrick, and Enrico Moretti (2014) “People, Places, and Public Policy:
 Some Simple Welfare Economics of Local Economic Development.” 
\emph on
Annual Review of Economics
\emph default
 6: 629-62.
 https://www.annualreviews.org/doi/pdf/10.1146/annurev-economics-080213-041024.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-20"

\end_inset

Krivo, Lauren J., Byron, Reginald A., Catherine A.
 Calder, Ruth D.
 Peterson, Christopher R.
 Browning, Mei-Po Kwan, and Jae Yong Lee (November 2015) 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

Patterns of local segregation: Do they matter for neighborhood crime?
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 
\emph on
Social Science Research
\emph default
 54: 303-18.
 https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ssresearch.2015.08.005.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-3"

\end_inset

Laamanen, Jani-Petri (October 2017) “Home-ownership and the Labour Market:
 Evidence from Rental Housing Market Deregulation.” 
\emph on
Labour Economics
\emph default
 48: 157-67.
 https://doi.org/10.1016/j.labeco.2017.08.005.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-29"

\end_inset

Lee, Barrett A., Chad R.
 Farrell, Sean F.
 Reardon, and Stephen A.
 Matthews (2019) “From Census Tracts to Local Environments: An Egocentric
 Approach to Neighborhood Racial Change.” 
\emph on
Spatial Demography
\emph default
 7: 1-26.
 https://doi.org/10.1007/s40980-018-0044-5.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-24"

\end_inset

Lee, Barrett A., Sean F.
 Reardon, Glenn Firebaugh, Chad R.
 Farrell, Stephen A.
 Matthews, and David O’Sullivan (October 2008) “Beyond the Census Tract:
 Patterns and Determinants of Racial Segregation at Multiple Geographic
 Scales” 
\emph on
American Sociological Review
\emph default
 73, 5: 766-791.
 https://doi.org/10.1177/000312240807300504.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-10"

\end_inset

Lens, Michael C.
 (2017) “Measuring the geography of opportunity” 
\emph on
Progress in Human Geography
\emph default
 41, 1: 1-23.
 https://escholarship.org/uc/item/5fp7x7xc.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-15"

\end_inset

Lens, Michael C.
 and Paavo Monkkonen (2016) “Do Strict Land Use Regulations Make Metropolitan
 Areas More Segregated by Income?” 
\emph on
Journal of American Planning Association
\emph default
 82, 1: 6-21.
 https://doi.org/10.1080/01944363.2015.1111163.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-4"

\end_inset

Lester, T.
 William and Daniel A.
 Hartley (March 2014) “The long term employment impacts of gentrification
 in the 1990s.” 
\emph on
Regional Science and Urban Economics
\emph default
 45: 80-9.
 https://doi.org/10.1016/j.regsciurbeco.2014.01.003.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-26"

\end_inset

Manson, Steven, Jonathan Schroeder, David Van Riper, Tracy Kugler, and Steven
 Ruggles (2020) IPUMS National Historical Geographic Information System:
 Version 15.0 [dataset].
 Minneapolis, MN: IPUMS.
 http://doi.org/10.18128/D050.V15.0.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-5"

\end_inset

Massey, Douglas S.
 and Nancy A.
 Denton (December 1988) “The Dimensions of Residential Segregation” 
\emph on
Social Forces
\emph default
 Vol.
 67, No.
 2: 281-315.
 https://www.jstor.org/stable/2579183.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-6"

\end_inset

Massey, Douglas S., Jonathan Rothwell, and Thurston Domina (2009) “The Changing
 Bases of Segregation in the United States” 
\emph on
The ANNALS of the American Academy of Political and Social Science
\emph default
 626, 1: 74-90.
 https://doi.org/10.1177/0002716209343558.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-28"

\end_inset

Missouri Census Data Center (2018) 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

Geocorr Applications.
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 http://mcdc.missouri.edu/applications/geocorr.html.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-8"

\end_inset

Meltzer, Rachel (2013) “Do Homeowners Associations Affect Citywide Segregation?
 Evidence from Florida Municipalities” 
\emph on
Housing Policy Debate
\emph default
 23, Issue 4: 688-713.
 https://doi.org/10.1080/10511482.2013.812571.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-9"

\end_inset

Meltzer, Rachel and Pooya Ghorbani (2017) “Does gentrification increase
 employment opportunities in low-income neighborhoods?” 
\emph on
Regional Science and Urban Economics
\emph default
 66: 52-73.
 https://doi.org/10.1016/j.regsciurbeco.2017.06.002.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-3"

\end_inset

Owens, Ann (2016) 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

Inequality in Children's Contexts: Income Segregation of Households with
 and without Children.
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 
\emph on
American Sociological Review
\emph default
 81, 3: 549-74.
 https://doi.org/10.1177/0003122416642430.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-10"

\end_inset

Owens, Ann, Sean F.
 Reardon, and Christopher Jencks (August 2016) “Income Segregation Between
 Schools and School Districts.” 
\emph on
American Educational Research Journal
\emph default
 Vol.
 53, No.
 4: 1159-97.
 https://doi.org/10.3102/0002831216652722.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-16"

\end_inset

Pendall, Rolf, Robert Puentes, and Jonathan Martin (August 2006) 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

From traditional to reformed: A review of the land use regulations in the
 nation's 50 largest metropolitan areas.
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 The Brookings Institution Research Brief.
 https://www.brookings.edu/wp-content/uploads/2016/06/20060802_Pendall.pdf.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-31"

\end_inset

Reardon, Sean F.
 (2011) “Measures of Income Segregation.” Stanford Center for Education Policy
 Analysis.
 https://cepa.stanford.edu/content/measures-income-segregation.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-39"

\end_inset

Reardon, Sean F.
 and Kendra Bischoff (2011) “Income Inequality and Income Segregation” 
\emph on
American Journal of Sociology
\emph default
 Volume 116, Number 4 (January 2011): 1092-1153.
 https://www.jstor.org/stable/10.1086/657114.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-42"

\end_inset

Reardon, Sean F., Kendra Bischoff, Ann Owens, and Joseph B.
 Townsend (2018) “Has Income Segregation Really Increased? Bias and Bias
 Correction in Sample-Based Segregation Estimates.” 
\emph on
Demography
\emph default
 55: 2129-2160.
 https://doi.org/10.1007/s13524-018-0721-4.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-41"

\end_inset

Reardon, Sean F., Glenn Firebaugh, David O’Sullivan, and Stephen Matthews
 (August 2006) “A New Approach to Measuring Socio-Spatial Economic Segregation”
 Paper Prepared for the 29th General Conference of The International Association
 for Research in Income and Wealth.
 http://www.iariw.org/papers/2006/reardon.pdf.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-40"

\end_inset

Reardon, Sean F., Lindsay Fox, and Joseph Townsend (July 2015) “Neighborhood
 Income Composition by Household Race and Income, 1990-2009.” T
\emph on
he ANNALS of the American Academy of Political and Social Science
\emph default
 660, 1: 78-97.
 https://doi.org/10.1177/0002716215576104.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-43"

\end_inset

Reardon, Sean F., Stephen A.
 Matthews, David O’Sullivan, Barrett A.
 Lee, Glenn Firebaugh, Chad R.
 Farrell, and Kendra Bischoff (August 2008) “The Geographic Scale of Metropolita
n Racial Segregation” 
\emph on
Demography
\emph default
 45: 489-514.
 https://doi.org/10.1353/dem.0.0019.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-5-1"

\end_inset

Reardon, Sean F.
 and David O’Sullivan (2004) 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

Measures of Spatial Segregation.
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 
\emph on
Sociological Methodology
\emph default
 34: 121-62.
 https://doi.org/10.1111/j.0081-1750.2004.00150.x.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-44"

\end_inset

Reardon, Sean F., and Joseph B.
 Townsend (2018) 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

RANKSEG: Stata module to compute rank-order segregation measures with finite
 sample-bias correction.
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 https://EconPapers.repec.org/RePEc:boc:bocode:s458460.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-23"

\end_inset

Reardon, Sean F., and Joseph B.
 Townsend (2018) 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

SEG: Stata module to compute multiple-group diversity and segregation indices.
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 https://EconPapers.repec.org/RePEc:boc:bocode:s375001.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-45"

\end_inset

Richardson, Jesse J., Meghan Zimmerman Gough, and Robert Puentes (2003) 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

Is Home Rule the Answer? Clarifying the Influence of Dillon's Rule on Growth
 Management.
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 A Discussion Paper Prepared for the Brookings Institution Center on Urban
 and Metropolitan Policy.
 https://www.brookings.edu/wp-content/uploads/2016/06/dillonsrule.pdf.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-27"

\end_inset

Roth, Jean (2015) 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

Block Group Distance Database.
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 National Bureau of Economic Research Public Use Data Archive.
 https://www.nber.org/research/data/block-group-distance-database.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-12"

\end_inset

Rothwell, Jonathan T.
 (August 2012) “The Effects of Racial Segregation on Trust and Volunteering
 in US Cities” 
\emph on
Urban Studies
\emph default
 49, 10: 2109-36.
 https://doi.org/10.1177/0042098011428180.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-14"

\end_inset

Rothwell, Jonathan T.
 and Douglas S.
 Massey (July 2009) 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

The Effect of Density Zoning on Racial Segregation in U.S.
 Urban Areas.
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 
\emph on
Urban Affairs Review
\emph default
 Volume 44, Number 6: 779-806.
 https://doi.org/10.1177/1078087409334163.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-16-1"

\end_inset

Rothwell, Jonathan T.
 and Douglas S.
 Massey (December 2010) “Density Zoning and Class Segregation in U.S.
 Metropolitan Areas.” 
\emph on
Social Science Quarterly
\emph default
 Volume 91, Number 5: 1123-43.
 https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1540-6237.2010.00724.x.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-17"

\end_inset

Rothwell, Jonathan T.
 and Douglas S.
 Massey (2015) “Geographic Effects on Intergenerational Income Mobility.”
 
\emph on
Economic Geography
\emph default
 Vol.
 91, No.
 1: 83-106.
 https://doi.org/10.1111/ecge.12072.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-13"

\end_inset

Royuela, Vicente and Miguel Vargas (2010) “Residential Segregation: A Literature
 Review.” Working Papers 7, Facultad de Economía y Empresa, Universidad Diego
 Portales.
 https://EconPapers.repec.org/RePEc:ptl:wpaper:7.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-38"

\end_inset

Rugh, Jacob S.
 and Douglas S.
 Massey (2014) “Segregation in Post-Civil Rights America: Stalled Integration
 or End of the Segregated Century?” 
\emph on
Du Bois Review: Social Science Research on Race
\emph default
 11, 2: 205-232.
 https://doi.org/10.1017/S1742058X13000180.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-22"

\end_inset

Saiz, Albert (August 2010) “The Geographic Determinants of Housing Supply”
 
\emph on
The Quarterly Journal of Economics
\emph default
 125, Issue 3: 1253-1296.
 https://doi.org/10.1162/qjec.2010.125.3.1253.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-18"

\end_inset

Schelling, Thomas C.
 (1971) 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

Dynamic models of segregation.
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 
\emph on
Journal of mathematical sociology
\emph default
 1, no.
 2: 143-86.
 https://doi.org/10.1080/0022250X.1971.9989794.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-14"

\end_inset

Sharp, Gregory and John Iceland (2013) “The residential segregation patterns
 of whites by socioeconomic status, 2000-2011.” 
\emph on
Social Science Research
\emph default
 42, Issue 4: 1046-60.
 https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ssresearch.2013.03.007.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-29"

\end_inset

StataCorp (2019) Stata Statistical Software: Release 16.
 College Station, TX: StataCorp LLC.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-27"

\end_inset

Troesken, Werner and Randall Walsh (July 2019) 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

Collective Action, White Flight, and the Origins of Racial Zoning Laws.
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 
\emph on
The Journal of Law, Economics, and Organization
\emph default
 Volume 35, Issue 2: 289-318.
 https://doi.org/10.1093/jleo/ewz006.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-31"

\end_inset

U.S.
 Census Bureau (2011) 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

2002 Census of Governments: Government Organization Public Use Files.
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 https://www.census.gov/govs/www/02PubUsedoc_GovOrg.html#sources.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-32"

\end_inset

U.S.
 Geological Survey (2020) 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

USGS Water Mission Area NSDI Node: 1:2,000,000-scale Digital Line Graph
 files of streams.
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 https://water.usgs.gov/GIS/metadata/usgswrd/XML/stream.xml.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-18"

\end_inset

Velez, Maria B.
 and Kelly Richardson (May 2012) 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

The Political Economy of Neighborhood Homicide in Chicago: The Role of Bank
 Investment.
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 
\emph on
The British Journal of Criminology
\emph default
 Volume 52, Issue 3: 490–513.
 https://doi.org/10.1093/bjc/azr092.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-15"

\end_inset

Weinberg, Daniel H., John Iceland, and Erika Steinmetz (2003) “Measurement
 of Segregation by the U.S.
 Bureau of the Census in ‘Racial and Ethnic Residential Segregation in the
 United States: 1980-2000’.” U.S.
 Census Bureau Working Papers.
 https://www.census.gov/library/working-papers/2003/demo/massey.html.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-25"

\end_inset

Wheeler, Christopher and Paul A.
 Jargowsky (June 2018) “Promoting Inclusive Communities: How Cities Can
 Utilize Local Housing Policy to Combat Economic Segregation.” Johns Hopkins
 21st Century Cities Initiative Policy Brief.
 https://21cc.jhu.edu/wp-content/uploads/2018/06/promoting-inclusive-communities.pd
f.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
